Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                              4 February 2026
Personal Property


                                              CHAPTER A-413

      U.S. GOVERNMENT BILL OF LADING – PRIVATELY OWNED PERSONAL
         PROPERTY (PPGBL/BL) AND U.S. GOVERNMENT BILL OF LADING
                      CORRECTION NOTICE (SF 1200)

A. GENERAL
    This chapter establishes procedures and provides guidance for the accountability, use, issuance,
    preparation, and distribution of the U.S. Government Bill of Lading-Privately Owned Personal
    Property, Figure A-413-1. The PPGBL/BL must be used for the acquisition of authorized
    transportation and related services from a commercial Transportation Service Provider (TSP) for the
    movement of Department of Defense (DoD)-sponsored personal property shipments, mobile homes,
    and Privately Owned Vehicles (POV) eligible for movement on a PPGBL/BL. This chapter does not
    apply to Personally Procured Moves (PPMs), refer to Chapter A-411, PPMs.

B. RESPONSIBILITIES
    1. USTRANSCOM is responsible for prescribing administrative procedures regarding the use of
       PPGBL/BLs for the procurement of commercial transportation services on behalf of the DoD.
    2. The Administrator, General Services Administration (GSA), is responsible for prescribing
       procedures governing the use of PPGBL/BLs throughout the U.S. Government. GSA has
       published the regulations and procedures governing the procurement of, and the billing and
       payment for, transportation services for the account of the United States in the Federal
       Management Regulation, Part 102-118, Transportation Payment and Audit.

C. PROCEDURES
    1. Supply. At locations that cannot create computer-generated PPGBL/BLs, requisitions must be
       submitted through normal DoD Component publications supply and distribution channels to the
       U.S. Army Publications and Printing Command. Transportation Officers (TO) are responsible for
       maintaining an adequate supply of PPGBL/BLs at their activity.
    2. Accountability.
        a. Each shipping activity must maintain records of PPGBL/BLs issued and the supply of
           PPGBL/BLs on hand. PPGBL/BL forms are accountable, and the number of pre-printed
           forms that an activity may keep on hand is limited by Service/Agency policy. Internal
           procedures must be established to control stocks and assign accountability for PPGBL/BL
           issuance and use. The TO, or in the absence of a TO, an acting TO, must be appointed in
           writing as the responsible PPGBL/BL issuing officer and held accountable for PPGBL/BL
           control, safekeeping, and disposition. To facilitate control, individual PPGBL/BL sets are
           serially numbered when printed. The forms are issued by the U.S. Army Publications and
           Printing Command and numbers provided by USTRANSCOM. Packages of PPGBL/BLs
           must be opened immediately upon receipt and inventoried by the issuing officer or designated
           representative to verify that none are missing. Activities must establish procedures for
           conduct of audits by personnel external to the office controlling PPGBL/BLs. Audits must be
           conducted at least every 180 days to verify inventories and records. TOs must provide the
           same level of accountability and safeguarding of PPGBL/BL numbers maintained and issued
           in automated systems as they do for pre-numbered PPGBL/BL forms. Audits conducted with
           automated systems must consist of a review of the PPGBL/BL register to ensure each
           PPGBL/BL number is properly assigned to a valid shipment or recorded as void.



                                                 IV-A-413-1
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


        b. Computer-Prepared PPGBL/BLs. TOs, having facilities for computer preparation of
           PPGBL/BLs, may order them in continuous tractor feed, fan-fold format through government
           distribution centers. Authorization must be obtained from USTRANSCOM to imprint
           PPGBL/BL numbers at the time of issuance.
             (1) Automated Sites. The laser-generated PPGBL/BL must be used by all automated sites
                 for the acquisition of authorized transportation and related services from commercial
                 TSPs for the movement of DoD-sponsored personal property shipments, mobile homes,
                 and POVs eligible for movement on a PPGBL/BL. Use software-generated PPGBL/BLs
                 and continuation sheets (SF 1109) published using a laser printer and standard bond
                 paper. USTRANSCOM controls PPGBL/BL numbers in coordination with GSA. The
                 laser-generated PPGBL/BLs are only accountable when a number has been assigned to
                 the form. All information printed on the reverse of the non-laser-produced PPGBL/BL
                 is included in the Terms of Service (TOS), Appendix A-B. The first PPGBL/BL
                 produced (and continuation sheets) must be annotated “Original.” All other
                 copies/reprints must not contain the word, “Original.”
             (2) Non-Automated Sites. Blank forms must be procured using normal forms supply
                 procedures.
        c. Transfer of Forms. Blank serially numbered original PPGBL/BLs or preassembled sets that
           have been issued to TOs or their designated agents may not be transferred to other TOs or
           their agents.
        d. Disposition of Unfit or Canceled PPGBL/BLs. When PPGBL/BLs have become mutilated or
           otherwise unfit for use or have been issued and the planned shipment is subsequently
           canceled for any reason, all parts except the original must be destroyed. The original
           PPGBL/BL must be marked “Canceled” or “Void” and must be filed in the property shipped
           PPGBL/BL file. When circumstances prevent filing of the canceled or voided original
           document, the property shipped copy or a substitute memorandum copy with notation of
           disposition of the original PPGBL/BL must be filed in the property shipped file.
        e. Reporting of Lost, Stolen, Canceled, or Missing PPGBL/BLs. The prefix symbol and serial
           number of blank original PPGBL/BLs or preassembled sets that have become lost, stolen, or
           are unaccountably missing or otherwise beyond the control of the issuing officer must be
           reported to USTRANSCOM.
    3. Issuing Officer. Only authorized or acting TOs may issue PPGBL/BLs. Such authorized persons
       may be military personnel or civilian employees of the government on duty at the issuing office.
       As stated in 41 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 101-41.302.4, accountability for PPGBL/BLs
       used by a contractor-shipper remains with the issuing office. The name and title of the issuing
       officer and the name and address of the issuing office, rather than those of the contractor-shipper,
       must appear on the PPGBL/BL.
    4. Format.
        a. Computer-generated PPGBL/BLs. In instances where computer-generated PPGBL/BLs are
           used, Paragraphs b and c below do not apply. The PPGBL/BL must be prepared and
           provided to the TSP or its agent prior to the commencement of packaging/loading services on
           the shipment.
        b. The PPGBL/BL consists of five separate basic forms. For simultaneous preparation, the
           forms are produced in a seven-part, carbon, interleaved set (except for laser-generated
           PPGBL/BLs). The standard form numbers, form title, color, and distribution is described in
           Paragraph E below.



                                                IV-A-413-2
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    4 February 2026
Personal Property


        c. In all instances, the PPGBL/BL original, shipping order (SF 1204), and the freight waybill
           original (SF 1205) must be given to the initial TSP or designated agent for the TSP before the
           shipment is packed and/or picked up. The TSP must sign and date the original PPGBL/BL
           where the certification is printed “Certificate for Receipt of Shipment and Original BL.”
        d. For Direct Procurement Method (DPM) Unaccompanied Baggage (UB) shipments, the
           PPGBL/BL is not printed at the time of the pickup at the customer’s residence. The TSP
           does not take possession of the shipment until after the contractor has picked up and prepared
           the UB shipment. The PPGBL/BL for DPM UB shipments must not be printed until the TO/
           Personal Property Shipping Office (PPSO) has received and input the actual weight and cube
           from the contractor into Web-Enabled Transportation Operational Personal Property Standard
           System (ETOPS).

D. PREPARATION OF THE PPGBL/BL
    1. The following preparation instructions are keyed to the numbered blocks appearing on the
       PPGBL/BL. When different entries are required, due to different methods of shipment, (e.g.,
       Through Government Bill of Lading (TGBL), DPM, Mobile Home, or POV) instruction by
       shipment method is provided. In all other cases, the entry data provided is the same for all
       methods of shipments.
        a. BLOCK 1, TRANSPORTATION COMPANY AND AGENT TENDERED TO. Enter the
           full business name of the initial line-haul TSP to which the shipment is tendered. The
           business name must include the words “company,” “incorporated,” or “limited”. These
           words may be abbreviated as co., inc., or ltd. No other company or TSP abbreviation, initial,
           or symbol may be used. Enter the name of the TSP’s booking agent, servicing agent, or the
           first agent in the Letter of Intent in parentheses after the business name of the initial line-haul
           TSP.
        b. Block 2, SCAC. Enter the four-position Standard Carrier Alpha Code (SCAC) assigned to
           the initial line-haul TSP by the National Motor Freight Traffic Association.
        c. Block 3, Service Code.
             (1) TGBL Shipments. Enter the COS (e.g., Code 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, D, T, or J).
             (2) DPM Shipments. Enter the two-position DPM alpha code, (e.g., “HE”, “BA”, “BG”).
                 DPM alpha codes are defined in Appendix A-H.
             (3) Mobile Homes. Enter the code “S”.
             (4) POVs. POVs are processed IAW DP3 Global POV Contract (GPC).
        d. Block 4, Shipment Number. When more than one (1) shipment is made for an individual
           customer, the PPGBL/BLs must be numbered in the same sequence as the DD Form 1299,
           Application for Shipment and/or Storage of Personal Property, Figure A-413-5, (e.g., 1 of 3,
           or 2 of 3). When only one (1) shipment is made, enter “1 of 1”.
        e. Block 5, Date B/L Issued. Enter the calendar date (day, month, and year, e.g., 4 Dec 14) on
           which the first entry is made in preparing the PPGBL/BL.
        f.   Block 6, Requested Packing Date. Enter the calendar date (day, month, and year, e.g., 4 Dec
             14) on which the TSP is to begin packing a TGBL shipment.




                                                 IV-A-413-3
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


        g. Block 7, Requested Pickup Date.
             (1) TGBL. Enter the requested pickup date or the date on which the TSP has agreed to pick
                 up the shipment (e.g., 6 Dec 14).
             (2) DPM.
                  (a)   Enter the date the shipment is picked up at the customer’s residence, Non-
                        Temporary Storage (NTS) facility, in cases where such pickup is performed by a
                        DPM packing contractor.
                  (b) Enter the scheduled date of pickup by the common TSP in all other cases (e.g.,
                      pickup at the aerial port of debarkation/seaport of debarkation or TO installation
                      facility).
        h. Block 8, Required Delivery Date. Enter the RDD (day, month, and year) that the shipment is
           required at the destination shown in Block 18 (e.g., 27 Dec 14).
        i.   Block 9, No entry required.
        j.   Block 10, Property Owner’s Name, Social Security Number (SSN), EIN (USCG only), Rank,
             and Pay Grade. Enter the customer’s name (last, first, middle initial), Social Security
             Number (SSN), and rank and pay grade. Also enter the customer’s status (PCS, TDY, SEP,
             RET) and the unit and activity to which the customer is assigned.
             NOTE: For DoD Service Members and DoD Civilian Employees, SSN will auto populate
             “XXX-XX-XXXX”.
             (1) Service Member E-1 – E-4: If the member’s grade is E-4 or below, indicate the
                 “maximum authorized weight allowance” per the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR,
                 Paragraph 0514).
             (2) U.S. Navy (USN): For USN shipments only, enter the customer’s rank or rate code.
                  NOTE: This code is the one-digit alpha character immediately following the
                  abbreviation and subhead in the accounting data contained in the customer’s orders.
             (3) For customer, enter “WD” (with dependents) or “WOD” (without dependents).
             (4) Deceased Customer or Dependent: For deceased customers or deceased dependent(s) of
                 a customer, annotate “BLUEBARK” immediately following the name.
             (5) Early Return of Dependents: For early return of dependents, enter dependents name,
                 followed by “Dependent of” and sponsors name, SSN (refer to paragraph D.1.j. NOTE)
                 or EIN (USCG only), and rank and pay grade.
        k. Block 11, Authority for Shipment. Enter the authority for shipment as shown on the
           customer’s orders:
             (1) Order Number,
             (2) Paragraph Number, and
             (3) Order Issuing Agency.
        l.   Block 12, Date of Order. Enter the date the orders were issued.
        m. Block 13, Extra Pickup/Delivery. When an extra pickup/delivery is requested, cross out the
           service not applicable and enter the complete address.
        n. Block 14, Department/Agency. Enter the sponsoring Service/Agency or other Agency.



                                                 IV-A-413-4
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    4 February 2026
Personal Property


        o. Block 15, Transportation Control Number. Enter the Transportation Control Number (TCN)
           for shipments that move in the Defense Transportation System (DTS).
             (1) The TCN must be constructed in accordance with (IAW) procedures set forth in DTR,
                 Part II, Appendix L.
             (2) The 15th position of the TCN requires a code that designates the shipment as one of the
                 following:
                  (a)   5 = Household goods (INTL MSC)
                  (b) B = Unaccompanied baggage (DPM)
                  (c)   H = Household goods (DPM)
                  (d) J = Unaccompanied baggage (TGBL)
                  (e)   K = Household goods (TGBL)
                  (f)   P = POV
                  (g) T = Household goods (INTL AMC)
        p. Block 16, No entry required.
        q. Block 17, Full Name of Shipper. Enter the full name of the military installation or activity
           making the shipment.
        r.   Block 18, Consignee. Enter name, destination, delivery address, and rate area code (e.g.,
             US11, US12, US13). Information must be as specific as possible (i.e., city, installation,
             county, state, country). Rate area code is only required on ITGBL shipments.
             (1) TGBL Shipments.
                  (a)   Consigned to the customer. Enter the customer’s name (last name, first name, and
                        middle initial), rank/grade, and activity to which the customer is assigned
                        (shipments destined overseas—spell out the name of the activity and country—do
                        not show Army/Air Force Post Office [APO]/Fleet Post Office [FPO] number) or
                        delivery address, including the street, city, county, state, or country, and ZIP code.
                  (b) Consigned to the customer’s agent. Enter the full name of the customer’s
                      designated agent, followed by the word “agent”, and the delivery address,
                      including the street, city, county, state, country, and ZIP code.
                  (c)   Consigned to a Commercial NTS Facility. Enter the full business name and
                        address of the commercial storage contractor, including the street, city, county,
                        state, and ZIP code.
                  (d) Consolidated Shipments. A separate PPGBL/BL must be issued for each
                      customer’s lot in the consolidated shipment. The individual PPGBL/BL must be
                      cross-referenced by inserting the following statement in Block 27: “This is a
                      consolidated shipment comprised of PPGBL/BL numbers” (list all other
                      PPGBL/BL numbers involved in the consolidated shipment).
             (2) DPM Shipments.
                  (a)   DPM shipments are consigned IAW the PPCIG. For DPM shipments entering the
                        DTS, the Continental United States (CONUS) seaport of embarkation (SPOE) or
                        aerial port of embarkation (APOE) must be entered. The final overseas destination
                        must appear in Block 20.



                                                  IV-A-413-5
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    4 February 2026
Personal Property


                  (b) For shipments to the SPOE, the desired delivery date (DDD) the shipment is
                      required at the SPOE must be entered.
             (3) Mobile Homes. Enter the customer’s name (last name, first name, and middle initial) (or
                 the full name of the customer’s agent followed by the word “agent”), and the delivery
                 address, including the street, city, county, state, and ZIP code.
             (4) POVs. Enter the customer’s name (last name, first name, and middle initial) (or the full
                 name of the customer’s agent followed by the word “agent”), and the delivery address,
                 including the street, city, county, state, and ZIP code, or, if destined to a port, the ocean
                 terminal.
        s. Block 19, From. Complete address at point of pickup and rate area code (e.g., US11, US12,
           US13). Rate area code is only required on ITGBL shipments.
             (1) Shipments from Residence. Enter the exact location of the property to be shipped,
                 including the street, city, or military installation, county, state, country, and ZIP code.
             (2) Shipments from Storage or Contractor’s Facility. Enter the name of the commercial or
                 government warehouse facility, including the street, city, county, state, country, and ZIP
                 code. For shipments from NTS, enter the stored net weight, lot number, and service
                 order number.
        t.   Block 20, Responsible Destination Installation/Office.
             (1) BLOC. Enter the destination TO BLOC in the designated block in Block 20.
             (2) TGBL and DPM Shipments. Enter the name of the responsible destination TO, state,
                 ZIP code, or country, APO/FPO number, and the commercial telephone number.
             (3) DPM Shipments entering the DTS. For DPM shipments entering the DTS, the final
                 overseas destination TO must be entered, not the CONUS SPOE/APOE, which appears
                 in Block 18.
             (4) Consolidated DPM Shipments entering the DTS. Enter the responsible destination TO
                 and BLOC receiving the largest shipment by weight.
        u. Block 21, Bill Charges To.
             (1) Army and Air Force Shipments. Enter: Defense Finance and Accounting Service
                 Indianapolis Center, Transportation Operations (DFAS-1-THA), Indianapolis, IN
                 46249-0611.
             (2) Navy Shipments.
                  (a)   Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Indianapolis, Transportation Pay
                        Services (DFAS-JFNBA/IN), 8899 East 56th Street, Indianapolis, IN 46249-0680,
                        c/o National Traffic Service.
                  (b) Navy Bills of Lading, both commercial and government, submitted for payment
                      using the Standard Form SF-1113 must be sent to National Traffic Service (NTS),
                      151 John James Audubon Pkwy, Amherst, NY 14228-1185.
             (3) Marine Corps Shipments. Enter: Comptroller, Transportation Voucher Certification
                 Branch, ATTN: Code 470, 814 Radford Blvd., Suite 20318, Albany, GA 31704-0318.
             (4) Coast Guard Shipments. Enter: Commanding Officer (OTABl), U.S. Coast Guard
                 Finance Center, 1430A Kristina Way, Chesapeake, VA 23326-0015.




                                                  IV-A-413-6
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


             (5) Defense Logistics Agency, Defense Intelligence Agency, and Office of the Secretary of
                 Defense Shipments. Enter: U.S. Army Finance and Accounting Center, Transportation
                 Operations, Indianapolis, IN 46249-0680.
             (6) All Air Force NAF. Enter: HQ AFSVA/SVFFC, 10100 Reunion Place, Suite 725, San
                 Antonio, TX 78216-4138.
             (7) Other. Enter the finance office indicated in the customer’s orders as being responsible
                 for payment.
        v. Block 22, Via.
             (1) TGBL Shipments. Leave blank.
             (2) DPM Shipments.
                  (a)   INTL/AIR/COMM/DPM Shipments. Show the complete routing from origin to
                        final destination as provided by the initial TSP.
                  (b) All Other DPM Shipments. Only the name of the originating TSP is necessary
                      unless it is to the advantage of the government to specify the connecting TSPs. It
                      is the obligation of the originating TSP to forward shipments over a route that
                      provides the lowest published charges within the mode. When it is necessary to
                      route shipments, routing must be selected by experienced transportation personnel
                      who are aware of various tariff restrictions and limitations to ensure that services
                      are obtained at the lowest possible cost.
             (3) POVs. The same instructions apply as those shown under “All other DPM Shipments.”
             (4) Mobile Homes. For mobile home shipments, enter the method of movement (e.g.,
                 towage, lowboy).
        w. Block 23, No entry required.
        x. Block 24, Appropriations Chargeable.
             (1) Army Shipments. Enter the movement designator code from the customer’s orders.
                 Also, for ITGBL shipments enter the four-digit Transportation Account Code (TAC).
                 TACs are available via the Internet. The URL is https://beis.csd.disa.mil/beis-
                 html/frontpage.html; select “TAC/LOA Inquiry (2875 Required)”.
             (2) Air Force Shipments. Enter the accounting data from the customer’s travel order. For
                 ITGBL shipments enter the TAC. The URL is https://beis.csd.disa.mil/beis-
                 html/frontpage.html; select “TAC/LOA Inquiry (2875 Required)”.
             (3) Navy Shipments. Enter the four-digit TAC shown in the customer’s orders. TACs are
                 available via the Internet. The URL is https://beis.csd.disa.mil/beis-html/frontpage.html,
                 select “TAC/LOA Inquiry (2875 Required)”.
             (4) Marine Corps Shipments. Enter the line of appropriation and Standard Document
                 Number from the customer’s orders. Marine Corps TAC guidance can be found at
                 http://www.marines.mil/Portals/59/MCO%204610.37F.pdf.
             (5) Coast Guard Shipments. Enter the accounting data indicated on the customer’s travel
                 order. It is normally located in Block 7 of the CG Form 5131, Standard Travel Order for
                 Military Personnel, Figure A-413-3, or specified in the body of a letter-format travel
                 order.
             (6) All Other DoD Shipments. Enter the accounting data from the customer’s orders. Also,
                 for all ITGBL shipments enter the four-digit TAC shown in the customer’s orders.


                                                 IV-A-413-7
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                  4 February 2026
Personal Property


                  Show the word “TAC” followed by the four-digit code. TACs are available via Internet.
                  The URL is https://beis.csd.disa.mil/beis-html/frontpage.html; select “TAC/LOA Inquiry
                  (2875 Required)”.
        y. Block 25, Remarks.
             (1) Storage in Transit (SIT).
                  (a)   TGBL Shipments Authorized SIT. If SIT was used at origin, enter: _____ days
                        SIT were used at origin.
                  (b) Shipments from NTS. If SIT was used, enter: _____ days temporary storage were
                      used at origin.
                  (c)   Shipments Not Authorized SIT. Enter: SIT not authorized.
             (2) Export and Import Annotations. For shipments originating in the CONUS and destined
                 overseas, enter: For Export. For shipments moving by air, originating overseas and
                 destined for the CONUS, enter: Imported by Air.
             (3) Unpacking at Destination. When the TSP does not perform packing services at origin
                 and unpacking services are required at destination, enter “Unpacking Required at
                 Destination.” This applies to shipments moving from NTS and UB shipments when
                 unpacking of UB is requested by the customer and authorized by the TO. When
                 unpacking is authorized on the PPGBL/BL, the TSP/agent must prepare a DD Form 619,
                 Statement of Accessorial Services Performed, Figure A-413-4, for labor charges and
                 identify the applicable charges in the Remarks section. The customer must initial next to
                 the item in the Remarks section to verify that unpacking services were performed. If the
                 PPGBL/BL for a shipment from NTS is not annotated, the destination TO must
                 authorize unpacking services on the DD Form 619.
             (4) TGBL Notification.
                  (a)   Direct Delivery Requested. If the customer has made advance arrangements with
                        the origin TO for direct delivery to the destination residence, enter: Direct
                        Delivery Authorized. Before completing the delivery, the TSP must notify the TO
                        specified in Block 20.
                  (b) Direct Delivery Not Requested. Enter: Before effecting delivery to a residence or
                      placing in storage, the TSP must notify the TO specified in Block 20.
                  (c)   BLUEBARK Shipments. Enter: Direct Delivery is not authorized. The TSP must
                        contact the TO specified in Block 20 for instructions.
             (5) Retrograde Shipments When Intermediate SIT Is Involved. Enter: TSP must request
                 disposition instructions from the TO at the CONUS military ocean or air terminal.
             (6) Mobile Homes.
                  (a)   Enter: Necessary repairs and services are authorized, not to exceed $150 total (tire
                        or tube replacement is excluded) without prior approval of the origin TO or
                        customer. The total specified may be greater than $150 if authorized by the
                        customer, in writing, at the time of counseling.
                  (b) Also enter amounts paid by the origin TO on a local contract for accessorial
                      services not performed by the customer or the TSP.
                  (c)   Army, Air Force, Marine Corps, and other Agencies’ personnel not remaining in a
                        pay status—insert the entitlement cost basis (maximum allowable cost) of the



                                                 IV-A-413-8
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


                        mobile home shipment. For all other Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps
                        personnel, 105 percent of the Base Line HHG Rate and the maximum packing rate
                        must be entered.
                  (d) For Navy personnel, the cost basis must not be shown.
             (7) Special Authorization. For shipments made from or consigned to a point not specified in
                 the customer’s orders, enter “Shipment authorized from (city/military installation,
                 county, and state/country) to (city/military installation, county, and state/country).” For
                 Army shipments, also enter “Shipment to authorized destination would have been under
                 (enter USTRANSCOM rate solicitation #) at a total cost of $ (enter total charges).”
             (8) Use of Government-Owned Containers. When government-owned containers are used
                 for shipments moving in TGBL service, enter the statement from the rate solicitation.
                 Also enter the number and type of containers used.
             (9) Administrative Weight Limitation. For shipments to or from Outside CONUS
                 (OCONUS) where administrative weight limitations are in effect, enter the following
                 notation: “Maximum administrative weight allowance for household
                 goods/unaccompanied baggage is (insert weight).”
                  NOTE: Weight limitations for Navy shippers must be listed on the customer’s orders.
             (10) NTS. When a shipment is consigned to an NTS facility, enter “For Nontemporary
                  Storage.”
             (11) Firearms. When the shipment contains firearms, enter “This Shipment Contains
                  Firearms.”
             (12) DPM and Code 5 Shipments Moving Through CONUS Military Ocean Terminals
                  (MOT). Enter the prelodge, predelivery notification requirements as set forth by the
                  MOT in the Personal Property Consignment Instruction Guide (PPCIG), Volume I
                  (CONUS).
             (13) POVs. Enter year, make, serial number, license number, and any other information
                  necessary to identify the POV.
             (14) Reweigh Required. When it is determined by the TO that a reweigh is necessary, or
                  when a reweigh is requested by the customer at origin, the TO must annotate the
                  PPGBL/BL with the words “REWEIGH REQUIRED”.
             (15) DDD/ETA at POE. For Code 5 and T shipments, enter “DDD: (insert date) at the
                  POE.” Compute the date from the estimated time of arrival (ETA) (Block 16) shown on
                  the Transportation Control and Movement Document (TCMD).
             (16) In Transit Contact Information. During counseling, enter customer in transit contact
                  information (i.e., cell phone number, e-mail address) to assist in communications
                  regarding the move.
        z. Block 26, Packages.
             (1) TGBL Shipments. Enter: 1 LOT.
             (2) DPM Shipments. Enter the number and type of containers (e.g., 1 FL - 2 CTNS).
             (3) Mobile Home Shipments. Enter: 1 EA.
             (4) POVs. Enter: 1 VO.




                                                 IV-A-413-9
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


        aa. Block 27, Description of Shipment. Enter the words “Household Goods,” “Unaccompanied
            Baggage,” “Personal Effects,” “Mobile Home with personal effects as indicated on the
            inventory”. For POVs, show the property classification and National Motor Freight
            Classification/Standard Transportation Commodity Code number.
             (1) TGBL Containerized Shipments. The TSP must enter the total number of containers
                 and total cube, along with dimensions.
             (2) DPM Shipments. After HHG or personal effects, the DPM contractor must enter the
                 aggregate weight and cube of the total number of each different type of container shown
                 in Block 26.
             (3) Mobile Homes. After “Mobile Home with personal effects as indicated on the
                 inventory,” enter the “length, width, height” of the mobile home in feet and inches. If
                 the mobile home is the expando type, indicate “expandable” and specify type (such as
                 single, double, or triple room, one side or both sides). Also, enter the make, model,
                 year, serial number, current license number, state, and year issued. If additional space
                 is required, use the “remarks” block.
             (4) DPM or POV Consolidated Shipments. A single PPGBL/BL with continuation sheets
                 must be issued. Enter: “This is a consolidated shipment. See continuation sheet.”
                 Each individual shipment lot must be identified on the continuation sheet, and the
                 customer’s name, rank/grade, SSN, delivery address, and authority for shipment must
                 be specified.
             (5) Shipment Valuation. The preprinted statement on the PPGBL/BL must be the only
                 reference to the valuation of a shipment unless a higher valuation is declared. When
                 this occurs, enter the following statement:
                   (a) For TGBL Domestic Shipments. Enter one of the following:
                        1   Increased Valuation - “Shipment is released at a declared lump sum value of
                            $_________” or “Shipment is released at a valuation of $_________ times the
                            net weight in pounds of the shipment.”
                        2   Full Replacement Protection - “Shipment is released at full replacement
                            protection of $3.50 times the net weight in pounds of the shipment or $21,000,
                            whichever is greater.”
                   (b) DPM Shipments. Enter: Released valuation not exceeding _________ cents per
                       lb.
        bb. Block 28, Weight.
             (1) TGBL Shipments. The TSP enters the gross, tare, and net weight in this column. The
                 net weight includes the weight of Professional Books, Papers & Equipment (PBP&E)
                 and consumable items (CONS).
             (2) DPM Shipments. Enter the total gross, tare, and net weight of the shipment.
             (3) PBP&E. PBP&E must be weighed separately and the weight must be inserted in the
                 space provided. (See Chapter 402, Paragraph F. 8.b.(3)(a).)
             (4) CONS. CONS must be weighed separately and the weight must be annotated in the
                 space provided for PBP&E weight. CONS must precede this weight in order to
                 distinguish between the weight of CONS and PBP&E.




                                                IV-A-413-10
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                4 February 2026
Personal Property


        cc. Blocks 29 and 30, For Use by Destination TSP Only. The TSP must enter these data
            elements for billing.
        dd. Block 31, Tariff or Special Rate Authorities. Enter the special rate authority and for ITGBL
            shipments, the rate per hundred weight (cwt) (such as, rate score [RS] I-8/$52.50 cwt) and,
            for domestic shipments enter percentage (such as RS D-5/95 percent). For OTO shipments,
            enter the words “one-time-only” or “OTO”, the TSP’s rate tender number, and the OTO rate.
        ee. Block 32a, Issuing Officer. Enter the name and title of the issuing TO. Signature of the
            issuing TO is not required.
        ff.   Block 32b, Issuing Office. Enter the BLOC and full name of the military installation or
              activity issuing the PPGBL/BL.
        gg. Block 33a, Name of Transportation Company. Enter the same information as in Block 1.
        hh. Block 33b, Date of Receipt of Shipment. The TSP must enter the actual date the shipment is
            picked up.
        ii.   Block 33c, Signature of Agent/Driver. The TSP/agent or driver must sign the PPGBL/BL
              acknowledging receipt.
        jj.   Block 33d, PER. If the agent’s name is signed by the agent’s authorized representative, the
              initials of the representative must appear in this block.
        kk. Block 34, For Use of Paying Officer. The TO must check the block to identify the reason
            for any excess cost involved in the shipment. The “Remarks” block must be used to fully
            explain the reason for the excess cost. Block 34 must be marked for all Navy-sponsored
            shipments that include a boat or mobile home.
        ll.   Blocks 35a through 35g, Certificate of TSP Billing for Charges. The TSP authorized to bill
              for charges must complete this portion of the PPGBL/BL after delivery has been
              accomplished.
        mm. Block 36, Special Services Ordered (Reverse of PPGBL/BL). The issuing TO must enter
            any special services authorized.

E. DISTRIBUTION AND SUBSTITUTE DOCUMENTS
    1. General. The PPGBL/BL is printed as a seven-part form (original and 6 copies). This paragraph
       provides guidance for the proper distribution of the PPGBL/BL for all methods and modes of
       shipment. It also discusses procedures for the use of substitute documents when the original
       PPGBL/BL has been lost or destroyed.
    2. Distribution. The PPGBL/BL must be processed and distributed as outlined below. When laser-
       printed PPGBL/BLs are used, ensure that enough copies are made for distribution.

        a. Original copy of laser-printed               Provide to the origin TSP for submission to the
           PPGBL/BL (TSP should have the                finance center for payment. Provide to the
           original copy or be provided the certified   TSP or its agent prior to the commencement of
           copy of the laser-printed PPGBL/BLs)         packaging/loading services on the shipment.

        b. Shipping Order                               Provide to the origin TSP for retention as the
           (Copy of laser-printed PPGBL/BLs)            actual service order.




                                                IV-A-413-11
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                              4 February 2026
Personal Property


        c. Freight Waybill TSP’s Copy SF 1205         Provide to the origin TSP for retention. May
           (Copy of laser-printed PPGBL/BLs)          be used as substitute document (for a lost
                                                      PPGBL/BL).

        d. Accounting Copy                            For Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps, and
           (Copy of laser-printed PPGBL/BLs)          Agency Shipments – Provide to the TSP for
                                                      annotation of weight charges as required by the
                                                      TOS and for TGBL domestic—show mileage.

        e. Customer Copy                              For All Methods Except DPM – Give to the
           (Copy of laser-printed PPGBL/BLs)          origin TSP, who must:
                                                      Give to the customer when pickup is made at
                                                      the residence.
                                                      Give to the customer when delivery is made at
                                                      the residence if the origin pickup is from NTS.
                                                      Give to the destination TO if the shipment
                                                      originates from NTS and is to be placed in SIT
                                                      at the destination. The TO must give the copy
                                                      to the customer or the customer’s agent.
                                                      For DPM shipments – The TO must forward
                                                      the copy to the customer’s destination address
                                                      or unit of assignment, if known.

        f.   Property Received Copy                   Forward to the destination TO, who has final
             (Copy of laser-printed PPGBL/BLs)        delivery responsibility, with required
                                                      supporting documents, to arrive in advance of
                                                      the shipment. BLUEBARK shipments must be
                                                      so annotated and forwarded via certified mail.
                                                      Notify the destination TO by telephone or
                                                      message of the BLUEBARK shipment.

        g. Property Shipped Copy                      For TGBL shipments, retain in an origin
           (Copy of laser-printed PPGBL/BLs)          suspense file pending receipt of the accounting
                                                      copy. Upon receipt, annotate the Property
                                                      Shipped Copy and place in the shipment file.
                                                      For a DPM shipment, retain in the origin
                                                      shipment file.

    3. PPGBL/BL Canceled After Distribution. If a PPGBL/BL must be canceled after partial or
       complete distribution, a memorandum copy (and reproductions) must be clearly marked
       “canceled” and forwarded to each recipient of the initial distribution and USTRANSCOM. Also,
       when a PPGBL/BL Correction Notice is prepared, a complete distribution must be made IAW
       Paragraph F below.
    4. Substitute Documents Issued for a Lost PPGBL/BL.
        a. Issuance. When it is evident that the original PPGBL/BL has been lost or destroyed, the TSP
           must forward the original Freight Waybill (SF 1205) to the finance center for payment.
           When both the original PPGBL/BL and the original Freight Waybill have been lost or



                                              IV-A-413-12
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


             destroyed, the TSP must request a certified memorandum copy for use as a substitute billing
             document. The origin TO must annotate the certified memorandum copy as follows: “I
             certify that the services shown on this freight waybill were requested.” This certified
             memorandum copy must be signed, dated, and returned to the TSP for billing.
             NOTE: Manually generated certified copies must be signed; TOPS-generated certified copies
             do not need to be signed.
        b. Records and Control. The TO must note all memorandum PPGBL/BLs in the PPGBL/BL
           accountability record and promptly notify the responsible paying finance center so the
           finance center may take steps to preclude duplicate payment of the transportation charges.

F. PREPARATION OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT BILL OF LADING CORRECTION NOTICE
   (SF 1200)
    1. General.
        a. This paragraph provides guidance and instruction in the preparation of the SF 1200,
           Government Bill of Lading Correction Notice, Figure A-413-2, for making alterations and
           corrections to PPGBL/BLs.
        b. The subparagraph below is keyed to the numbered blocks on the SF 1200.
             (1) Date Notice Prepared (unnumbered). Enter the date the SF 1200 is prepared.
             (2) PPGBL/BL Number (Block 1). Enter the prefix symbol and serial number of the
                 PPGBL/BL being corrected. Only one PPGBL/BL may be corrected on each SF 1200.
             (3) Date PPGBL/BL Was Issued (Block 2). Enter the issue date shown on the PPGBL/BL
                 being corrected.
             (4) Total Weight Shown on PPGBL/BL (Block 3). Enter the total weight shown on the
                 PPGBL/BL.
             (5) Origin (Block 4). Enter the name of the origin address as shown on the PPGBL/BL.
             (6) Destination (Block 5). Enter destination address as shown on the PPGBL/BL.
             (7) Route (Block 6). Enter route shown on “via” block on the PPGBL/BL. Leave blank if
                 no route is shown on the PPGBL/BL.
             (8) Issuing Office (Block 7). Enter the name of the activity that issued the PPGBL/BL.
             (9) To (Block 8). Enter name, address, and ZIP code of activity to which the original SF
                 1200 is to be sent.
             (10) Payment Data (Block 9). Self-explanatory.
             (11) From (Block 10). Enter name, address, and ZIP code of activity issuing the SF 1200.
             (12) Bill of Lading Now Reads (Block 11). Enter information from the PPGBL/BL that is to
                  be corrected. If the SF 1200 is being issued to include information omitted from the
                  PPGBL/BL, enter the words “information omitted” in this block.
             (13) Correct Bill of Lading to Read (Block 12). Enter information to be shown on the
                  corrected PPGBL/BL.
             (14) Authority for Correction (Block 13). Enter information, which justifies correction.
             (15) Remarks (Block 14). Enter remarks pertaining to the correction being made.




                                                IV-A-413-13
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                   4 February 2026
Personal Property


             (16) Information Copy To (Block 15). Enter name, address, and ZIP code of all the
                  recipients of SF 1200, excluding the addresses shown in Blocks 8 and 10.
             (17) Signature and Title of Initiating Official (Block 16). Self-explanatory.
             (18) TSP Representative’s Signature (Block 17). Self-explanatory.
                  NOTE: Manually generated certified copies must be signed; TOPS-generated certified
                  copies do not need to be signed.

G. DISTRIBUTION OF SF 1200
    1. When transportation charges are affected by the alteration or correction, the SF 1200 must be
       prepared in sufficient quantities to permit the following distribution:
        a. A copy to the consignee.
        b. A copy to the disbursing officer.
        c. Original and one copy to the originating TSP.
        d. A copy to the office of the shipper service.
        e. A copy to be attached to the consignor copy of the PPGBL/BL.
        f.   Copies to all other addresses shown in “Information copy to” (Block 15).
        g. A copy retained by the initiator of the SF 1200.
    2. When the disbursing office or appropriation data changes, the SF 1200 must be prepared in
       sufficient quantity to permit the following distribution:
        a. The original to the initial disbursing office.
        b. A copy to the new disbursing office as amended.
        c. Two copies to the consignee.
        d. A copy to the office of the shipper service.
        e. A copy to origin TSP.
        f.   A copy to be attached to the consignor copy of the PPGBL/BL.
    3. When any other alterations or corrections are made, the SF 1200 must be prepared in sufficient
       quantities to permit the same distribution as stated in Paragraph G.1 above.

H. WHO MAY ISSUE SF 1200
    1. Issuing Officer. In all cases where the issuing officer detects that an alteration or correction is
       required, the issuing officer must initiate the SF 1200. This issuing officer must also make
       distribution IAW Paragraph G.
    2. Consignee.
        a. When the consignee considers it necessary to make alterations or corrections which have not
           been authorized by the issuing officer, the consignee must notify the issuing office by
           electrical means or in writing, unless it is obvious that immediate alterations or corrections
           are necessary to reflect the exact facts relating to the shipment. If a reply to this notification
           is not received within 30 days, the consignee is permitted to make alterations or corrections.




                                                 IV-A-413-14
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                4 February 2026
Personal Property


        b. When it is obvious that immediate alterations or corrections are necessary to reflect the exact
           facts relating to the shipment, the consignee may make the necessary alterations or
           corrections without the issuing officer’s authorization.




                                               IV-A-413-15
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                      4 February 2026
Personal Property




       Figure A-413-1. U.S. Government Bill of Lading – Privately Owned Personal Property




                                              IV-A-413-16
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                       4 February 2026
Personal Property




               Figure A-413-2. SF 1200, Government Bill of Lading Correction Notice




                                              IV-A-413-17
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                      4 February 2026
Personal Property




           Figure A-413-3. CG Form 5131, Standard Travel Order for Military Personnel



                                              IV-A-413-18
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                       4 February 2026
Personal Property




             Figure A-413-4. DD Form 619, Statement of Accessorial Services Performed



                                              IV-A-413-19
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                     4 February 2026
Personal Property




  Figure A-413-5. DD Form 1299, Application for Shipment and/or Storage of Personal Property




                                              IV-A-413-20
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                     4 February 2026
Personal Property




  Figure A-413-5. DD Form 1299, Application for Shipment and/or Storage of Personal Property
                                          (Cont’d)




                                              IV-A-413-21
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                    4 February 2026
Personal Property




                          THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                                              IV-A-413-22
