Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                   14 July 2026
Personal Property


                                              CHAPTER A-402

                                     SHIPMENT MANAGEMENT

A. INTRODUCTION
    1. This chapter describes the Department of War DoW shipment management and distribution
       methodology for the Defense Personal Property Program (DP3). Procedures for traffic
       distribution, shipment award/acceptance, shipment delivery, and temporary storage are provided.
    2. This chapter also describes the Defense Personal Property System (DPS) as it relates to the
       management of domestic household goods (dHHG), international household goods (iHHG),
       unaccompanied baggage (UB), the movement of One-Time-Only (OTO), Mobile Home One-
       Time-Only (MOTO), Boat One-Time-Only (BOTO), special solicitations, and Volume Move
       (VM) shipments within the Continental United States (CONUS) and/or Outside the Continental
       United States (OCONUS).
    3. Direct Procurement Method (DPM), shipments going into non-temporary storage (NTS), and
       shipments moving under intra-theater tenders will be processed using eTOPS IAW current policy
       standards.

B. SELECTION OF METHOD AND MODE OF SHIPMENT
    When the Personal Property Shipping Office (PPSO) determines a shipment must move by the DPM,
    or the DPM is the only method available in accordance with (IAW) the Personal Property
    Consignment Instruction Guide (PPCIG), the provisions of Chapter 404 of this regulation apply.
    When the PPSO determines that movement by preferred air (Transportation Priority Two [TP-2]) is
    necessary to meet the customer’s requirements, the following apply:
    1. Army-Sponsored Shipments. All requests for TP-2 airlift to/from other than hard-lift areas must
       be routed to HQ Army G-4, ATTN: DALO-FPT.
    2. Air Force-Sponsored Shipments. The provisions of Air Force Policy Directive AFPD 24-6,
       Distribution and Traffic Management, apply. All requests for TP-2 airlift to/from other than
       hard-lift areas must be routed through the Major Command to JPPSO-SC, 3515 S. Gen
       McMullen, Ste 160, San Antonio, TX 78241, 210 321-4200; DSN: 954-4200; fax: 210 321-
       4259. Advance Transportation Control and Movement Document (ATCMD) clearance
       documents must be submitted to the Shipper Service Control Office (SSCO) or overseas Area
       Clearance Authority (ACA) for TP-2 shipments, to and from other than hard-lift areas, and must
       include a TH-9 trailer card identifying the airlift approval authority (i.e., JPPSO-SAT/DIR
       123456Z Dec 14).
    3. Navy-Sponsored Shipments. For Navy-sponsored air shipments, the provisions of Naval Supply
       Systems Command (NAVSUP) Publication (Pub) 490, Transportation of Personal Property,
       apply. All requests for TP-2 airlift to/from other than hard-lift areas must be routed through the
       NAVSUP Household Goods (HHG) Division.
    4. Marine Corps-Sponsored Shipments. For Marine Corps-sponsored air shipments, the Marine
       Corps policy concerning air shipments of HHG and unaccompanied baggage (UB) is contained in
       Marine Corps Order (MCO) P4600.39, Marine Corps Personal Property Transportation Manual,
       Paragraph 3204.
    5. Coast Guard-Sponsored Shipments. Coast Guard policy concerning air shipments of HHG and
       UB is contained in Commandant Instruction (COMDTINST) M4050.6, Coast Guard Personal
       Property Transportation Manual, Paragraph 2001.



                                                 IV-A-402-1
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


C. OUTBOUND
    1. Traffic Distribution:
        a. These instructions are applicable to the transport of DoW personal property in the various
           markets (i.e., dHHG, iHHG, and UB). There are Traffic Distribution List (TDL)
           Transportation Service Providers (TSP) for every Code of Service (COS) under every
           channel combination. Paragraph C.1.b below describes channels. The number of TSPs in
           any given channel varies based on the number of DoW-approved TSPs with an acceptable
           Best Value Score (BVS). TSPs are ranked from highest BVS to lowest BVS in each of these
           TDLs.
        b. Channel Types. There are four general channel categories, and each contains many specific
           origin/destination combinations.
             (1) CONUS to CONUS. The origin state (four states [California, Florida, Texas, and
                 Alaska] are split into separate rate areas for originating shipments to destination region).
                 Destination regions are a combination of states. There are 13 destination regions in
                 CONUS, plus intrastate and Alaska.
             (2) CONUS to OCONUS. Origin CONUS state to OCONUS destination country.
             (3) OCONUS to CONUS. OCONUS origin country to CONUS destination state.
             (4) OCONUS to OCONUS. OCONUS origin country to OCONUS destination country.
        c. The DoW assigns a rate area to a given state, country, or geographic portion of each.
           Internationally, rate areas are from the origin country to the destination country or state. For
           international channels, there will be a separate TDL for each COS.
             NOTE: Definitions of COS can be found in Table A-402-3.
    2. Shipment Allocation (Routing and Booking):
        a. DPS ensures all shipments are ready for booking and available to the correct PPSO based
           upon their Area of Responsibility (AOR). Shipment allocation involves determining the
           available COS meeting the desired pickup date while taking into account the customer’s
           required delivery date (RDD). Code 2 service is available for use at the discretion of the
           PPSO based on market conditions and when Code D capability reaches capacity without
           excess costs to the customer.
        b. A customer may request Code 2 service; however, they are subject to excess cost if Code D
           service is available.
        c. PPPO/PPSO communication with the customer is necessary to determine if they are a
           candidate for a Code 2 shipment.
             (1) Criteria must be met to be considered for a Code 2 shipment:
                  (a)   Shipments:
                        1 without a direct delivery address at the time of booking,
                        2 where the customer requests the shipment be placed into SIT, or
                        3 with a direct delivery address, and the member’s planned leave or a TDY in
                          transit prevents acceptance of a direct delivery at destination.




                                                  IV-A-402-2
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  (b) Shipments estimated at 10,000 lbs or less in Peak Season (15 May – 30 Sep) or
                      3,000 lbs or less in Non-Peak Season (1 Oct – 14 May).
                  (c)   Shipments moving greater than 800 miles.
                  (d) Shipments that do not contain extra-large items that will not fit in a standard
                      liftvan.
             (2) If a Code 2 shipment is not available due to TSP blackout or non-availability, PPSOs
                 should consider awarding as a Code 2 short fuse shipment if the member has flexibility,
                 before offering the shipment as a Code D.
             (3) Exclusion Criteria:
                  (a)   Situations where the customer’s requirements will result in potential excess costs
                        (e.g., overweight, alternate locations, etc.).
                  (b) Shipments where the customer intends to have a direct delivery and will provide an
                      address after booking. PPPO/PPSO shall ask this of the customer as some
                      customers may not have their address at time of booking but will have it before
                      shipment pickup.
             (4) Customer Requested Code 2: Shipment requires the PPPO/PPSO to conduct a cost
                 analysis between Code 2 and Code D unless shipment meets the Code 2 criteria above.
             (5) Code 2 Transit Times: PPSOs must add five (5) days to the standard domestic transit
                 time for Code 2 shipments due to additional logistical requirements.
        d. After the shipment COS is selected, the shipment can be offered. DPS determines the next
           TSP to offer the shipment for the particular channel and COS, based on the BVS rankings and
           existing allocations. Shipment offers consider the comparison between TSP blackout dates
           and desired pickup date. After DPS determines the next TSP to be allocated a shipment, the
           shipment is offered to the TSP.
        e. dHHG and iHHG. DPS distributes shipments to qualified TSPs in a round robin rotation
           based on BVS. TSPs in each Quality Band receive a set number of shipments, with TSPs in
           the higher Quality Bands receiving more shipments. At the beginning of each annual rate
           cycle, DoW Personal Property Activity (PPA) develops a Minimum Performance Score
           (MPS) for each market. TSPs with scores above the MPS are divided into four Quality Bands
           in highest to lowest BVS order, with more TSPs assigned to the first Quality Band if the
           number of TSPs in a market is not divisible by four. Shipments are awarded to TSPs as
           specified in Table A-402-1. For example, in a market with 10 TSPs in each Quality Band, all
           10 TSPs in the first band are assigned a shipment in round robin fashion until each TSP has
           been assigned five shipments. The next available shipment is assigned to the first TSP in the
           second Quality Band. After all TSPs above the MPS have been assigned their allotted
           number of shipments, the allocation process starts again with the top TSP in the first Quality
           Band.
        f.   UB. The same Quality Band and distribution framework discussed for dHHG/iHHG is used
             for UB shipments. However, the volume of shipments per assignment in that market is
             higher. The higher volume assignments enable consolidation of shipments in high volume
             lanes. Shipments are awarded to TSPs as specified in Table A-402-2.
        g. VM and OTO. DPS solicits VM and OTO rates from TSPs as required for the following
           types of shipments:
             (1) VM (Domestic and International)



                                                 IV-A-402-3
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


             (2) OTO (International)
             (3) MOTO (Domestic)
             (4) BOTO (Domestic and International).
                  NOTE: The PPSOs must submit VM and OTO requests through DPS. DoW PPA
                  reviews requests and solicits rates from TSPs using DPS. VM requests are solicited
                  from TSPs in an active status with current rates on file for that channel. TSPs must
                  submit a VM rate that is lower than their current rate on file for that market and channel.
             (5) The process/distribution logic for VM is as follows:
                  (a)   For Domestic VM:
                        1   All rates submitted by TSPs for the VM must be lower than their discount rate
                            on file for that Channel-COS combination in that market.
                        2   TSPs must file a lower rate for both line-haul (LH) and storage-in-transit (SIT)
                            than their rate on file for that same Channel-COS combination in that market.
                        3   DPS ensures TSPs provide VM rates lower than their current rate on file for
                            that Channel–COS combination. Higher rates are rejected.
                        4   DPS establishes a Rate Score (RS) for all TSPs with acceptable rates for each
                            VM request.
                        5   DPS combines the RS with the current Performance Score (PS) for the market
                            to establish a unique BVS used for the VM.
                        6   DPS ranks TSPs based on their BVS (from highest to lowest).
                        7   PPSOs will then award shipments IAW BVS rankings, and the minimum and
                            maximum daily tonnage requirements. PPSOs may select an alternate TSP to
                            handle volume above the amount handled by the primary TSP if required.
                            NOTE: Refer to Section 3, VM of the Domestic 400NG Tariff for additional
                            details (https://dps.move.mil/cust).
                  (b) For International VM:
                        1   For International VM, a Single Factor Rate (SFR) is used IAW Chapter 9 of
                            the International Tender.
                        2   TSPs must file a SFR lower than their SFR for that same Channel-COS
                            combination in that market.
                        3   DPS establishes a RS for all TSPs with acceptable rates for each VM request.
                        4   DPS combines this RS with the current PS for the market to establish a unique
                            BVS which will be used for each VM solicitation.
                        5   DPS ranks TSPs based on their BVS (from highest to lowest).
                        6   PPSOs will then award shipments IAW BVS rankings, and minimum and
                            maximum daily tonnage requirements. The PPSO may select an alternate TSP
                            to handle volume above the amount handled by the primary TSP if required.
                            NOTE: Refer to Chapter 9, the VM section of the International Tender, for
                            additional details (https://dps.move.mil/cust).




                                                 IV-A-402-4
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


             (6) Process/distribution logic for Special Solicitation:
                  (a)   Special Solicitation rates are solicited for those channels that involve infrequent
                        movement of personal property to domestic and international destinations or
                        channels that have special requirements. For example, CONUS To/From
                        Singapore is a Special Solicitation group. TSPs are required to submit rates for all
                        channels within this group (i.e., Origin Rate area From/To Destination rate area).
                        NOTE: TSPs are required to service all channels within this Special Solicitation
                        group.
                  (b) TSPs with the highest BVS are considered the “Primary” and are allocated all the
                      shipments in that Special Solicitation group. The remaining TSP(s) are considered
                      “Alternates”. In the event the primary TSP cannot accept all tonnage/shipments,
                      the Alternate TSP with the next highest BVS is offered the tonnage accordingly.
                        NOTE: For details on special solicitation channels, refer to the Rate Filing
                        Instructions for TSP on the DoW PPA website (https://dps.move.mil/cust).
    3. Shipment Route and Award Process. DPS offers shipments to qualified TSPs in a round robin
       rotation based on BVS. DPS offers shipments to the TSP electronically based on customer-
       unique shipment indicators such as the type of shipment, desired pickup and delivery dates, and
       the origin to destination combination (channel) information obtained during counseling.
        a. Route Process: DPS provides shipment codes (Surface and Air), based on information
           obtained during counseling and/or other pertinent data resident in DPS. Shipment selection is
           made based on the approval COS that meets all time parameters.
             (1) DPS uses the below information to determine authorized COS:
                  (a) The channel based on origin-destination
                  (b) International or Domestic
                  (c) HHG or UB
                  (d) MOTO/BOTO
                  (e) Eligible for an established VM
                  (f) Available modes (e.g., COS for surface and/or air)
                  (g) Estimated cost for each available COS
                  (h) Applicable transit time for each available COS
                  (i)   Desired pickup date and RDD.
             (2) DPS displays all possible COS and the PPSO then selects the COS (e.g., Code 2, 4, 6, 7,
                 8, D, I, T, or J) for the shipment.
        b. Award Process. PPSOs can offer shipments to TSPs manually or automatically via DPS.
             (1) BVS Award Process. This is the standard method of offering shipments to TSPs. DPS
                 provides the next available TSP based on BVS. The PPSO can elect to override the
                 shipment award to the next BVS (e.g., customer preferred TSP or traffic management
                 decision), the DPS shipment record must contain proper justification for the selection.
             (2) Other Manual Offer Processes. Approval authority resided with the PPSO Director.
                 This authority cannot be delegated. The following manual award processes (unless
                 otherwise stated) are only authorized when the shipment was not accepted by a TSP after


                                                  IV-A-402-5
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  moving through the BVS TDL award process, either due to Refusal, Blackout, or
                  shipment exceeding time in queue based on parameters set in DPS. Before using the
                  following manual award processes, the PPSO Directors should consider the requested
                  pickup date, and expected ability to book the shipment based on known available
                  agent/TSP capacity in the pickup area or other variables (e.g. new entrants or new
                  capacity). If the customer’s requested pickup date is far enough into the future, and/or if
                  there are no major capacity constraints in the pickup area, PPSO Director should
                  continue to re-offer the shipment through the BVS routing process until shipment gets to
                  within 45 days of the pickup window.
                  (a)   Preferred TSP “Manual Award” Process.
                        1   During the counseling process the preferred TSP option allows
                            PPSO/PPO/Customer to select a preferred TSP in DPS.
                        2   Preferred TSP allows PPSO to accommodate the request, regardless of which
                            quartile shipments are being offered in, when a Preferred or Non-Preferred
                            TSP preference is identified.
                  (b) Manual Award Process.
                        1   To manually award a shipment directly to a TSP, the PPSO technician will
                            have to identify a TSP that can handle the shipment, prior communication with
                            the TSP is necessary to ensure acceptance of the shipment offer.
                        2   Under the manual award process, PPSOs are able to award to any TSP
                            regardless of the quartile in which they currently reside.
        c. Manual “Offer to All” process.
             (1) An “Offer to All” in DPS is authorized when the shipment is not accepted by any TSP
                 after moving through the TDL, either due to Refusal, Blackout, or shipment exceeding
                 time is queue based on parameters set in DPS.
             (2) Steps in the “Offer to All” Process:
                  (a) After a shipment moves through the TDL without being accepted (or exceeding
                      offer parameters), the “Offer to All” is then made available to PPSOs in their award
                      queue, regardless of shipment pickup lead times.
                  (b) The PPSO can utilize this function regardless of the shipment pickup lead time.
                      When this function is used the shipment will appear in the TSP Short Fuse queue
                      for any TSP with rates on file for that channel.
                  (c) Shipments accepted in this status will not count against the TSP’s scheduled
                      shipment allotment under “Round Robin” distribution.
                  (d) Reporting of usage for “Manual Award” and “Offer to All” capabilities.
                        1   The PPA J3 will conduct monthly trend and utilization analysis on “Manual
                            Award” and “Offer to All”.
                        2   The PPA J3 will review trends and utilization with the PPSO Directors.




                                                 IV-A-402-6
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                     14 July 2026
Personal Property


        d. Automatic Booking Process:
             The PPSO must obtain approval from their Service HQ prior to selecting the automatic
             booking option in DPS. If selected, DPS automatically routes and books all eligible
             shipments as follows:
             (1) DPS identifies the channel (origin-destination)
             (2) Identifies whether the shipment is iHHG or UB or dHHG
             (3) Determines the best value COS to meet shipment requirements
             (4) DPS then offers the shipment to the TSP according to the BVS process within the
                 Quality Band.
        e. Short-Fuse Shipments: Defined as shipments requiring pickup within five (5) Government
           Business Days (GBD). DPS offers the shipment electronically to all TSPs in that market.
           TSPs that have entered “blackout dates” during this period receive shipment notifications as
           well. The shipment is awarded to the first TSP to accept the shipment. This shipment is a
           “bonus” and is not counted against the TSP’s scheduled shipment distribution. If no TSP
           accepts a short-fused shipment within 24 hours, DPS alerts the PPSO of the “Non-Response.”
           The PPSO must take action to ensure the customer’s shipment is serviced (e.g., contact a TSP
           willing to accept the shipment and subsequently award that TSP the shipment in DPS, contact
           the customer to obtain alternate dates, or ship via DPM or Personally Procured Move [PPM]).
        f.   Blackout Dates: Dates in which a TSP cannot accept a new shipment offer. Use of blackouts
             provides TSPs with the flexibility required to manage workloads, while maintaining a pool of
             available TSPs for expected DoW shipments. TSPs may modify blackout dates (by three-
             digit Zone Improvement Code (ZIP) code) for specific origin PPSO’s Bill of Lading Office
             Code (BLOC) and destination region combinations by shipment category in DPS. The TSP
             may enter blackout dates six (6) months in advance (e.g., on 1 January the TSP can blackout
             dates through 30 June). DPS allows real-time updates of blackout dates to prevent shipment
             assignment conflicts. If a TSP misses a shipment offer because the date is blacked out, the
             TSP is assigned an “administrative shipment” and is not offered another shipment until the
             next scheduled offer within that Quality Band.
        g. Weekend/Holiday Schedule: DPS tracks holidays at each BLOC worldwide since holidays
           and weekends impact allowable pickup and delivery dates. PPSOs can enter and/or modify
           the holiday schedule for their AOR. The PPSOs can override the default scheduling rules to
           allow a pickup or delivery on a holiday or weekend.
        h. RDD: DPS establishes the RDD (Pickup Date + Transit Time = RDD). Rule exceptions:
             (1) The customer enters a Desired Delivery Date (DDD) and/or arrival date earlier than the
                 calculated transit time for the COS available. If the TSP agrees to the earlier desired
                 delivery date, the DDD becomes the RDD. If the TSP does not agree, the calculated
                 RDD by DPS will be the pickup + transit time. If the PPSO is aware the customer
                 requires a delivery date shorter than the transit time, the PPSO will contact the next-in-
                 line TSP prior to offering the shipment. The PPSO will only offer the shipment if the
                 TSP agrees to the earlier transit time.
             (2) The customer enters dates for desired pickup and/or delivery. In these instances, the
                 following chronology of events would apply:
                  (e) During Counseling: Establish the customer desired shipment dates (origin and
                      destination) to include pickup and RDD.
                  (f) During Booking: Preferred shipment date.


                                                 IV-A-402-7
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                     14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  (g) During Pre-Move: TSP and the customer agreed dates. This becomes the
                      established DPS RDD.
                  (h) Actual Pickup and Delivery Dates: The dates the shipment is actually picked up
                      and delivered.
    4. Rejection of Shipment Offers:
        a. Shipment refusals are not allowed in the DP3 (except for short-fused shipments or shipments
           with RDDs less than the established days) because of the utilization of TSP blackout dates. If
           a TSP refuses a shipment, the TSP may be declared ineligible to receive shipments in that
           PPSOs market for 30 calendar days. Multiple refusals may lead to disqualification. DPS
           monitors TSP responses to shipment offers to ensure acceptance within 24 hours after the
           shipment has been assigned (excluding weekends and holidays). DPS considers domestic and
           international time zones when determining acceptance with 24 hours.
             NOTE: DoW PPA may modify shipment refusal procedures as industry capacity situations
             change. DoW PPA will issue a Customer Advisory 10 GBDs prior to any changes taking
             effect.
        b. If the TSP fails to accept a shipment offer within the required time:
             (1) DPS sends a notification to the PPSO Quality Assurance (QA) and Outbound section
                 and generates a “Notice of Non-Response” to the TSP indicating the TSP’s failure to
                 accept the shipment in a timely manner. DPS marks the e-mail “URGENT” and sends
                 the notification to the TSP provided e-mail addresses.
             (2) DPS charges the TSP with a shipment allocation and makes the shipment available for
                 offer to the next TSP.
             (3) DPS does not “automatically” suspend the TSP from the market. This action must be
                 taken by the PPSO to ensure the “Non-Response” was not due to a system problem.
             (4) If not system-related, the PPSO initiates a “Letter of Suspension” (DD Form 1814,
                 Transportation Service Provider (TSP) Notice of
                 Warning/Suspension/Reinstatement/Cancellation, available at
                 https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD) to the TSP citing the “Non-Response” constitutes a
                 “Refusal.”
    5. Cancellation:
        a. The following information details shipment cancellation procedures. A cancellation may
             occur either as a result of a TSP’s actions or inactions, or when the PPSO determines that a
             shipment must be canceled in the interest of the Government.
             NOTE: Shipment(s) canceled within five (5) GBDs of the pickup date are considered short
             notice when being reallocated and are not chargeable against the new TSP on the TDL.
             (1) When the PPSO determines a shipment must be canceled in the interest of the
                 Government, the PPSO will immediately notify the TSP (either telephonically or
                 electronically) and process the shipment cancellation in the DPS (Shipment Management
                 work queue). DPS will return the TSP to the TDL without shipment charge and the TSP
                 will be considered for the next available shipment offering over the same channel.
    6. Shipment Pull-Back/Turn-Back:
        The following information outlines the PPSO shipment pull-back/turn-back procedures. A
        shipment pull-back may occur as a result of a TSPs actions or inactions or when the PPSO



                                                 IV-A-402-8
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                         14 July 2026
Personal Property


        determines that a shipment must be pulled back in the interest of the Government. A shipment
        turn-back occurs as a result of TSP actions or inactions. These procedures are applicable to both
        domestic and international shipments. At the PPSO’s discretion, shipments may be pulled back
        (e.g., cancel the bill of lading [BL]) provided packing services have not been performed.
        Shipments pulled back within five (5) GBDs of the pickup date are considered short notice when
        being reallocated and are not chargeable against the new TSP on the TDL.
        NOTE: If packing services have been performed, the original BL will be retained for payment
        IAW Appendix A, Third Party Payment System of all services performed.
        a. Pull-back: The PPSO must notify the TSP of the pull-back and perform pull-back actions in
           DPS (Shipment Management queue). When the PPSO determines that a shipment must be
           pulled back from a TSP in the interests of the Government, the shipment will not be charged
           to the TSP on the TDL. DPS will return the affected TSP to the TDL and the TSP will be
           considered for the next available shipment offering over the same channel.
        b. Shipments that are pulled-back/turned-back based on actions or inactions of the TSP are
           charged against the TSP on the TDL. When a suspension action occurs against a TSP, at the
           PPSO discretion, all shipments awarded to the affected TSP from the BLOC may be pulled-
           back and reallocated to other eligible TSPs. PPSO will consider all available information and
           whether or not the TSP has the ability to service shipments in question before the shipments
           are pulled-back.
        c. The PPSO must notify the TSP (either telephonically or electronically) of the shipment pull-
           back and perform pull-back actions in DPS (Shipment Management queue). If the shipment
           is turned-back by the TSP, the PPSO must perform pull-back functions in DPS. In both
           cases, the PPSO must notify the customer of the changes and provide new servicing TSP
           information.
             NOTE: When a shipment(s) is reallocated, the new TSP must contact the customer as soon as
             possible and meet all DP3 requirements.
        d. In the event a turn-back or any other failure to service a shipment results in the Services
           reimbursing the customer for an Actual Cost Reimbursement Personally Procured Move, the
           TSP may be held responsible to reimburse the government for costs above the TSP’s rates to
           service that shipment.
    7. Pre-Move Survey:
        a. The pre-move survey allows the TSP to address the customer’s specific needs and concerns,
           in addition to guiding the customer in the preparation of his or her move from an
           administrative and practical perspective.
        b. The pre-move survey:
             (1) Establishes the volume of goods to be transported (Weight)
             (2) Assesses necessary packing material
             (3) Identifies special packaging requirements (Crates)
             (4) Ascertains any other difficulties (e.g., if access to the house is difficult [Shuttle, crane
                 required])
             (5) Confirms or establishes agreed-upon pack and pickup dates.
        c. I agree to perform a pre-move survey on all shipments, either in residence, virtually, with
           customer’s consent, e.g., e-mail or software consent, or telephonically. I will conduct a pre-
           move survey either electronic or physical and provide the government and customer weight


                                                   IV-A-402-9
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


             estimates on all shipments five (5) days from accepting the shipment but NLT nine (9) days
             prior to the first scheduled pack/pickup date, whichever is later. For shipments ordered less
             than nine (9) days prior to the first scheduled pack/pickup date, weight estimates must be
             provided NLT three (3) days prior to the first scheduled pack/pickup date. For shipments
             ordered less than three (3) days prior to the first scheduled pack/pickup date, weight estimates
             must be provided NLT one (1) day prior to the first scheduled pack/pickup date. I agree to
             make initial contact with the customer within three (3) GBDs of the shipment award date to
             provide the customer with contact and pre-move information, including on shipments
             originating from NTS. Subject to the customer’s availability, I agree to complete the pre-
             move survey and update DPS with the pre-move survey data (estimated weight, agreed upon
             pack/pickup dates, and delivery date information) as soon as possible but NLT three (3)
             GBDs prior to the pickup date and NLT one (1) GBD prior for short fuse shipments. I agree
             to contact local quality assurance immediately upon discovering any concerns with the
             condition of the customer’s residence during the pre-move survey.
        d. The PPSO may initiate QA action for failure to perform a pre-move survey if the TSP has not
           entered required pre-move survey data IAW the above guidelines.
             NOTE: TSPs will notify the PPSO when the customer is unavailable for the pre-move
             survey. Upon notification from the TSP, the PPSO will make every attempt to contact the
             customer and provide the TSP updated customer contact information, if applicable. The
             PPSO must verify the customer s pre-move availability prior to issuing administrative action
             against the TSP for failure to meet the above timelines.
    8. Accessorials:
        The process is outlined in Appendix A, Third Party Payment System, for the management of pre-
        approval of services submitted by the TSP. DPS tracks pre-approvals requested by a TSP. Pre-
        approvals can be requested on both origin and destination services. TSPs enter the accessorial
        services requiring pre-approval in DPS. DPS displays all the accessorials for which pre-approval
        has been requested, along with the pre-approval status. Pre-approval records are assigned a status
        of “Pending” when they are created, and “Approved” or “Denied” according to PPSO action.
        DPS uses the pre-approval data to compare with services submitted for final approval. Pre-
        approved and pre-denied services are flagged accordingly. The PPSO is required to approve or
        disapprove accessorials within three (3) GBDs and/or prior to services being performed,
        whichever is earlier.
    9. SIT at Origin:
        a. Temporary storage will be used when it is in the best interest of the customer, as a result of
           circumstances at the destination area, or when it is in the best interest of the Government.
           The TSP must request SIT at origin in DPS. All shipments placed in SIT at origin must be
           approved by the PPSO.
        b. The origin PPSO can manage SIT as follows:
             (1) The PPSO outbound receives a TSP request to place shipment in SIT
             (2) The PPSO outbound approves or denies the TSP request
             (3) The PPSO outbound enters the SIT data
             (4) DPS generates the SIT control number
             (5) DPS determines the SIT expiration date based upon the date the shipment placed in SIT
             (6) Update and extend the SIT



                                                 IV-A-402-10
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                     14 July 2026
Personal Property


             (7) Convert storage cost from Government expense to customer’s expense (see Note 1).
             NOTE 1: The PPSO must maintain visibility of the shipment until delivery out or other final
             disposition has been arranged. The PPSO must contact the customer before converting
             shipments to commercial storage.
             NOTE 2: Refer to the Domestic 400NG Tariff and/or the International Tender for further
             details.
        c. A Standard Form (SF) 1200, Government Bill of Lading Correction Notice, available at
           https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD must be issued after the customer provides a destination
           delivery address to terminate SIT and release property for LH movement. Shipments
           released from SIT origin are moved on the BL that was issued at the time of shipment award.
           The PPSO at the origin must issue the SF 1200 to establish a new RDD and provide the
           number of days the SIT was utilized at the origin. When a shipment is released from the
           origin SIT, the following formula is used to calculate the number of days used and the
           remaining number of days authorized at destination:
             (1) Days SIT Used = Shipment Release Date minus (–) Date Placed in Storage + 1 day.
             (2) Remaining Days SIT Authorized At Destination = Days SIT Authorized minus (–) Days
                 SIT Used.
                  NOTE: Shipments removed from SIT at the origin should not be placed into SIT at
                  destination. When a shipment must be placed into SIT at destination due to reasons
                  beyond the control of the customer, the TSP must obtain approval for the SIT at
                  destination from the PPSO. The transaction appears in DPS as a SIT approval that the
                  destination PPSO must approve or deny. After the PPSO approval, DPS issues a SIT
                  control number.
    10. Excess Costs:
        a. DPS determines excess costs for customer shipments. The PPSOs must inform the customer
           that excess costs exist and collect if possible. DPS identifies potential excess costs at both
           origin and/or destination.
        b. When the system determines that excess costs may occur, the customer will be initially
           notified after the shipment has been picked up and weighed, or at destination prior to
           shipment delivery.
        c. Examples of the excess costs are: Excess weight, excess distance, multiple shipments,
           mobile home excess costs, and boat/trailer excess costs.
             NOTE: Refer to the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR) for further details on excess costs.
        d. DPS calculates the excess cost based on the actual shipment weight and displays the amount
           of excess cost to be collected from the customer. If/when the PPSO is responsible for
           collecting excess costs; the PPSO must enter the payment collection information into DPS.
             (1) If the customer is “In a Pay Status” at destination, DPS calculates and notifies the
                 Service finance office for collection. The Service finance office has access to all
                 shipment related data in DPS and can generate excess cost reports.
             (2) If the customer is not “In a Pay Status” at destination, DPS calculates the excess cost
                 based on the actual shipment weight and displays the amount of excess cost to be
                 collected from the customer. The customer must be notified of the excess cost and




                                                IV-A-402-11
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  if/when the PPSO is responsible for collecting excess costs, the PPSO must enter the
                  payment collection information into DPS.
                  NOTE: When it is determined that possible excess cost may occur, DPS prints the
                  following text in the fields. In Block 25 of the BL, the words “PAYING OFFICER
                  REVIEW” are printed in the remarks section. DPS also places an “X” in Block 34 of the
                  BL and provides the following annotations:
                  (a)   For “Excess Distance” and/or “Excess Weight,” – Places an “X” in Block 34 of the
                        BL and displays the following text in Block 25: “PAYING OFFICER REVIEW”.
                  (b) For Mobile Home Shipments – Places an “X” in Block 34 of the BL for “Other
                      Costs” and in Block 25 displays the following text “PAYING OFFICER
                      REVIEW” and “Cost of Mobile Home exceeds costs of moving full JTR weight
                      allowance”.
                  (c)   For Boat/Trailer shipments – Places an “X” in Block 34 of the BL for “Other
                        Costs” and in Block 25 displays the following text “PAYING OFFICER
                        REVIEW” and “Costs of moving Boat/Trailer exceeds the cost of moving
                        authorized JTR weight allowance, possible excess costs exist for which the
                        customer may be liable.”
                  (d) For Multiple Shipments – Places an “X” in Block 34 of the BL for “Other Costs”
                      and in Block 25 displays the following text “PAYING OFFICER REVIEW”.
                  (e)   For Accessorial Services related excess costs – Places an “X” in Block 34 of the
                        BL for “Other Costs” and displays the following text in Block 25: “PAYING
                        OFFICER REVIEW”. The PPSO must identify what accessorial charges are the
                        responsibilities of the customer.
                        NOTE: If the only shipment the customer has is a PPM, the shipment is not
                        included in the computation for excess costs. However, if the customer has
                        multiple shipments to include a PPM move, the weight of the PPM shipment must
                        be used in the excess costs computations.
    11. Updating Shipment Information:
        Shipment changes may include administrative changes (contact, shipment information) i.e.,
        cancellations, terminations, pull-backs, and diversions.
        a. DPS allows the customer/alternate to edit orders information, contact information, and/or
           shipment information. The customer can also modify data submitted on their shipment
           application(s) if the shipment has not been validated by the PPSO counselor. If the shipment
           has been validated, the following rules apply:
             (1) DPS advises the customer: “One or more of the shipments associated with this set of
                 orders has been moved beyond the counseling process and may have been routed and/or
                 awarded to a TSP. For this reason, changes to the counseling data cannot be made at
                 this time. Please contact your responsible outbound PPSO for assistance with any
                 changes.”
                  (a)   DPS advises the customer that the data cannot be modified and is “read-only.”
                        Exception: The customer can update customer contact and dependent data at any
                        time.




                                                IV-A-402-12
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


             (2) The PPSO is required to make changes to the shipment record.
                  (a)   If the requested changes are made prior to the TSP conducting the pre-move
                        survey, the PPSO can make the necessary changes in DPS and the TSP receives
                        notification of the changes via DPS. The BL cannot be printed until after the pre-
                        move survey data has been entered by the TSP. After the pre-move survey has
                        been performed and the shipment record updated, the BL reflects the modification
                        entered by the PPSO.
                  (b) If the requested changes are made after the TSP has performed the pre-move
                      survey and the BL has been printed, the PPSO must generate a SF Form 1200 to
                      make the necessary changes.
                  (c)   If the customer requested change to the desired pickup date and the date requested
                        is “blacked-out,” DPS alerts the PPSO that the date is not available with that TSP
                        and the PPSO must:
                        1   Contact the TSP to see if they can still handle the shipment. If the TSP is
                            available, the PPSO must update DPS with the new date(s).
                        2   If the TSP is not available on the new date(s), the PPSO must pull-back and
                            offer the shipment to another TSP who is available during the period requested
                            by the customer. The original TSP is not charged a “refusal,” and the next
                            available shipment in that channel must be offered to the original TSP if they
                            are not blacked out.
    12. Printing Outbound Shipment Documentation:
        DPS provides for the accountability, usage, issuance, preparation, and distribution of all
        documentation generated in DPS. DPS ensures forms are properly prepared prior to printing.
        The following DPS generated documents support DP3.
        a. U.S. Government Bill of Lading-Privately-Owned Personal Property (PPGBL), Figure A-
           402-2, and Bill of Lading (BL). Used for the acquisition of authorized transportation and
           related services from commercial TSPs for the movement of DoW-sponsored personal
           property shipments, mobile homes, and POVs eligible for movement on a BL. The BL is
           generated by DPS and available to the PPSO, TSP, and the customer.
             NOTE: The TSP must provide an electronic or hard-copy BL to the customer prior to
             completion of shipment pickup.
        b. SF Form 1200, Government Bill of Lading Correction Notice, available at
           https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. When transportation charges are affected by an alteration or
           correction, the SF Form 1200 must be prepared in DPS and available to the PPSO and TSP.
        c. DD Form 1780, Shipment Evaluation and Inspection Record, available at
           https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. Evaluation of TSP performance begins when the origin PPSO
           awards a shipment to the TSP. Acceptance of the offer binds the TSP to perform IAW the
           general terms established by the DoW and agreed upon by the TSP and the specific terms
           contained on the BL and the applicable rate solicitation.
        d. DD Form 619, Statement of Accessorial Services Performed, available at
           https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. Used by the TSP to support billings for materials and services.
        e. DD Form 1814, Transportation Service Provider (TSP) Notice of
           Warning/Suspension/Reinstatement/Cancellation, available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD.
           Used to notify the TSP of a warning, suspension, reinstatement, cancellation action. The
           letter of suspension must state the customer’s name, BL number, and the exact violation


                                                 IV-A-402-13
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                     14 July 2026
Personal Property


             and/or rate solicitation paragraph violated on the shipment or shipments resulting in the
             action.
        f.   DD Form 1800, Mobile Home Inspection Record, available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD.
             Describes a mobile home’s condition before and after shipment. The origin PPSO must
             prepare a DD Form 1800 for each mobile home shipment and provide that document to the
             TSP with the BL. The TSP completes the origin portion of the form at the time of pickup.
             The TSP at destination completes the destination portion. Sections of the form are reserved
             for the origin and destination PPSOs when a visual inspection of the mobile home is made by
             the PPSO.
        g. DD Form 1384, Transportation Control and Movement Document, available at
           https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. TCMDs are multi-purpose forms used to control the
           movement of cargo (personal property) within the Defense Transportation System (DTS).
           DPS generates the DD Form 1384 for personal property shipments.
        h. DD Form 1857, Storage In-Transit (SIT) at Government Expense, available at
           https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. Used by the customer to request additional storage at
           government expense via DPS when personal property in temporary storage at government
           expense cannot be withdrawn prior to the storage expiration date.
        i.   DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD.
             Generated by DPS when the Government is required to collect, or the customer wishes to
             provide money for excess cost. This is normally, but not exclusively, used for customers in a
             non-pay status.
        j.   DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization, Figure A-402-1. Generated by DPS to collect
             charges incurred by the customer for services not authorized at Government expense (i.e.,
             excess packing, crating, hauling, storing, unpacking, uncrating). Collection is normally
             accomplished through the issuance of a DD Form 139 for a customer in a pay status. This
             form can also be used for customers in a non-pay status to route collection action through the
             necessary financial institutions.
        k. DD Form 1412, Inventory of Articles Shipped in House Trailer, available at
           https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. An original and three (3) copies of DD Form 1412 must be
           prepared. An inventory is required to substantiate any claim for loss or damage to the interior
           contents of the mobile home.
        l.   DD Form 1863, Accessorial Services – Mobile Homes, available at
             https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. The PPSO, upon the request of the customer, may authorize
             the TSP to perform additional requirements not included in the MOTO rate, either by a third-
             party service or negotiated rate. Services performed must be listed on DD Form 1863,
             certified by the PPSO or customer, and shown on the BL. The customer will not sign for
             accessorial services on DD Form 1863 at the origin or destination unless the TSP has actually
             performed those services.

D. INBOUND
    1. Updating Shipment Information:
        Shipment changes include administrative changes (i.e., contact, shipment information,
        terminations, pull-backs, and diversions). Business rules follow:




                                                 IV-A-402-14
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    14 July 2026
Personal Property


        a. The customer/or alternate can edit contact and/or shipment information. DPS saves all
           changes in the database and updates the shipment record. The customer/or alternate can
           make the following modifications to their shipment record:
             (1) Contact and sponsor data (e-mail addresses, phone numbers)
             (2) Shipment information (delivery address if currently blank)
                  NOTE: All other changes must be coordinated with the destination PPSO.
        b. The PPSO can edit shipment orders, contact, and/or shipment information. DPS saves all
           changes in the database. The PPSO can make the following modifications to shipment
           records:
             (1) Customer contact and sponsor data
             (2) Shipment information (e.g., address, phone number)
             (3) Update customer’s orders information when in receipt of amended/adjusted/revoked
                 orders.
                  NOTE: DPS maintains an audit trail of all the changes made to the shipment record
                  including when changes were made and who made said changes. The TSP can update
                  shipment addresses and phone numbers of the customer or alternate after the shipment
                  has been picked up and is in transit to the destination.
    2. Shipment Arrival:
        a. When a shipment arrives at the destination location, the TSP coordinates delivery directly
           with the customer. The TSP records the arrival and delivery of the shipment in DPS. The
           TSP must make at least one final first attempt to telephonically contact the customer prior to
           other electronic notifications. For further information regarding delivery coordination, see
           the Tender of Service.
        b. The PPSO must monitor the status of all inbound shipments that have arrived in DPS and are
           awaiting disposition (e.g., delivery to residence or SIT approval). The TSP must enter the
           following information in DPS:
             (1) Arrival date
             (2) Weight of shipment (For international shipments: pieces, weight, and cube)
             (3) Enter whole or split shipment information
             (4) Enter “Requested” and/or “Actual” delivery date
             (5) Attempted delivery date.
    3. Shipment Delivery:
        a. The TSP must be in regular contact with the customer throughout the entire process. If the
           customer has requested a direct delivery (with address), the TSP will affect delivery as
           requested. If the customer has not previously provided a delivery address for the shipment,
           the customer should enter the information directly into DPS as soon as is known. This
           updates the customer contact information and provides the TSP and PPSO information and
           ensures the shipment is delivered directly to their residence, preventing unnecessary SIT.
           DPS will update the shipment queue with a status change for the shipment arrival and any
           subsequent delivery. In all cases, except when a delivery is scheduled and executed on the
           same day, the TSP will enter the scheduled delivery date (including all changes) into the DPS
           as soon as possible but NLT the close of business on the day prior to the scheduled delivery



                                               IV-A-402-15
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    14 July 2026
Personal Property


             date. After the shipment has been delivered, the TSP must enter the actual delivery date in
             DPS within three (3) GBDs.
        b. If a customer wishes to have a shipment delivered out of SIT, the customer may request a
           delivery from SIT by accessing DPS and entering their delivery address and date. The
           customer can also contact the PPSO to request delivery and the PPSO must annotate the
           customer’s delivery address and date in DPS. DPS will send the delivery request to the TSP
           work queue and the TSP must confirm the delivery date in DPS within one (1) GBD. DPS
           will send the scheduled delivery confirmation notification to the customer and the PPSO
           work queue. If the customer telephonically contacts TSP to request delivery, the TSP will
           update DPS with the scheduled delivery date and delivery address within two (2) GBDs or by
           close of business the day prior to the scheduled delivery, whichever occurs first.
        c. The PPSO must monitor the status of all inbound shipments that have been scheduled for
           delivery in DPS and ensure the actual delivery dates and delivery addresses are entered in
           DPS within the required time frames as indicated above. For TSPs not meeting this
           requirement, the PPSO must take administrative actions IAW DTR IV, Chapter A-405,
           Quality Assurance.
    4. Partial Delivery:
        a. Into SIT:
             (1) The customer or designated alternate must contact the TSP to request a partial delivery.
                 A DPS notification is sent to the TSP and PPSO containing the following:
                  (a)   Inventory item number(s) requested
                  (b) Requested delivery date
                  (c)   Delivery address.
             (2) The TSP must deliver the requested item(s) to the partial delivery address and deliver the
                 remaining items into SIT. The TSP must confirm the partial delivery request in DPS and
                 notification will be sent to the customer and the PPSO. In all cases, except when a
                 delivery is scheduled and executed on the same day, the scheduled delivery date
                 (including all changes) will be entered into the DPS by the TSP as soon as possible but
                 NLT the close of business on the day prior to the scheduled delivery date. DPS will
                 monitor the remaining property in storage.
        b. From SIT:
             (1) The customer must contact the TSP to request a partial delivery from SIT. A DPS
                 notification is sent to the TSP and the PPSO containing the following information:
                  (a)   Inventory item number(s) requested
                  (b) Requested delivery date
                  (c)   Delivery address.
             (2) The TSP must deliver requested item(s) to the customer and enter the actual delivery
                 date in DPS. The TSP must enter the weight removed and the weight remaining in SIT
                 into DPS. DPS monitors the property in storage.
    5. SIT:
        a. Requesting SIT: The PPSO may use SIT when it is necessary to meet the customer’s
           requirements. Although SIT is normally used at destination when a shipment arrives before
           the customer has established a delivery address, it also may be used at origin or at an


                                                IV-A-402-16
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                       14 July 2026
Personal Property


             intermediate point when determined by the PPSO to be in the best interest of the customer
             and the Government. Subject to PPSO approval, the TSP may use any DoW-approved SIT
             facility listed in DPS. All SIT and related charges are based on the destination city or
             installation shown in Block 18 of the BL unless authorized by the servicing PPSO. Requests
             for extension of SIT for employees are accomplished IAW the JTR, Paragraph 054307.
             Requests for extension of SIT for members are accomplished IAW the JTR, Paragraph 0518.
             When SIT is extended, the PPSO must notify the TSP of the extension and the projected
             termination date. A DD Form 1857, available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD, must be
             submitted by the customer to the PPSO for an authorized extension. The PPSO can view
             and/or print the DD Form 1857.
             NOTE: SIT for DoW employees must be specifically authorized in their orders and may not
             exceed 60 days (CONUS-to-CONUS shipment) or 90 days (shipment involving an OCONUS
             origin or destination), unless additional storage is authorized. Not more than one 90-day
             storage extension may be authorized for a DoW employee without explicit authority from the
             Per-Diem, Travel and Transportation Allowance Committee.
             (1) DPS provides the following for the management of SIT:
                  (a)   Approving/denying request for SIT
                  (b) Updating and extending SIT
                  (c)   Providing for partial deliveries out of SIT
                  (d) Generating reports on shipments placed in SIT
                  (e)   Generating SIT correspondence (i.e., shipment arrival notice, expiration notice).
             (2) SIT Control Number. There is one SIT control register in DPS for SIT shipments. Upon
                 approval of SIT, DPS furnishes a SIT control number to the TSP. The nine-digit SIT
                 control number is constructed as follows:
                  (a)   The first two positions are the last two digits of the calendar year in which the
                        shipment enters SIT (e.g., if the shipment is placed in SIT during calendar year
                        2014, the first two digits are 14).
                  (b) The third, fourth, and fifth positions represent the Julian date for the calendar day
                      in which the shipment enters SIT (e.g., if the shipment is placed in SIT on
                      November 9 [Julian date is 313], the third, fourth, and fifth digits are 313).
                  (c)   The last four digits will indicate the numerical sequence of the shipments entering
                        SIT for that day (e.g., if the shipment is the eleventh shipment placed in SIT on that
                        day, the last four digits are 0011).
             (3) DPS maintains a SIT control log for recording all SIT authorizations. The log contains
                 the following information:
                  (a)   SIT control number
                  (b) Customer name
                  (c)   COS
                  (d) Storage location
                  (e)   Dates ordered in and out of SIT




                                                 IV-A-402-17
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                        14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  (f)   SIT expiration date:
                        SIT extension. DPS provides advance notification to all customers that SIT expires
                        within 30 days. The SIT period starts from the date entered into SIT and ends on
                        the date the entitlement ends (unless the entitlement is extended). For example, if a
                        shipment goes into SIT on 1 June and the authorization ends on 1 September, then
                        DPS provides notification to the customer not later than 1 August. DPS also sends
                        a SIT authorization expiration notification to the PPSOs work queue. The PPSO
                        must take necessary action to deliver, extend, or convert the shipment to
                        commercial storage in DPS. DPS allows the customer or alternate to request
                        additional storage, as necessary. A DD Form 1857, available at
                        https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD, must be completed by the customer in DPS. DPS
                        then notifies the PPSO of the customer’s request for additional SIT. After the DD
                        Form 1857 has been approved by the PPSO, DPS sends notification to the TSP that
                        the storage has been extended and advises the TSP of the new expiration date.
        b. Rules for Placing Shipments in SIT:
             (1) Customer Requested a Direct Delivery (during counseling) and a Direct Delivery
                 Address is Printed on the BL: The TSP is authorized SIT after a percentage (see
                 solicitation) of the shipment’s transit time (some exceptions may apply [e.g., customer’s
                 home becomes unavailable or customer is unable to accept delivery]). The TSP must
                 arrive the shipment in DPS. TSP may request SIT approval once they have determined
                 that the customer is no longer available for delivery. DPS will send a SIT approval
                 request to the PPSO. The PPSO must review to determine whether the applicable
                 percentage of the Government’s transit time has been met and will approve/disapprove
                 SIT accordingly. If SIT is approved by the PPSO, DPS will issue the SIT number.
             (2) No Direct Delivery Requested or Delivery Address (Printed on the BL): Upon shipment
                 arrival at destination, the TSP must arrive the shipment in DPS. The TSP will provide 24
                 hours’ notice for delivery, and cannot deliver a customer’s personal property to SIT
                 without customer approval unless two (2) documented unsuccessful attempts to contact
                 the customer are made six (6) hours apart. The TSP will be required to provide a first
                 available delivery date with both notifications. Once the TSP has determined the
                 customer is not available to accept delivery, the TSP must request SIT approval via DPS
                 and DPS will issue the required SIT number to the TSP.
                  NOTE: When approved by the PPSO, SIT is authorized effective the date the shipment
                  is offered for delivery by the TSP and not on the date it arrives at destination, unless the
                  shipment is offered for delivery on the same day it arrives at destination.
             (3) Release Out of NTS: If the shipment is a release out of NTS, it should not be placed in
                 SIT at destination. However, if SIT is required (e.g., customer’s house becomes
                 unavailable, customer hospitalized) the TSP may request SIT via DPS.
             (4) SIT for Split Shipments. If a shipment arrives at destination as a split shipment and the
                 customer is unavailable to receive any portion, SIT may be authorized separately on
                 each portion. DPS issues a separate SIT control number for each portion of the split
                 shipment. The TSP must obtain a separate weight ticket and a separate SIT control
                 number for each portion of the split shipment.
                  NOTE: Refer to the Domestic 400NG Tariff and/or the International Tender for detailed
                  business rules on split shipments.




                                                 IV-A-402-18
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    14 July 2026
Personal Property


             (5) SIT at Origin: SIT at origin can by initiated by either the PPSO or the TSP through
                 DPS. DPS sends a notification to the PPSO work queue and e-mail. After the PPSO
                 approves the request, DPS issues a SIT control number to the TSP.
                  (a) If a shipment is released from SIT at origin, it should not be placed into SIT at
                      destination. However, if SIT is required due to reasons beyond the control of the
                      customer (e.g., customer’s house becomes unavailable, customer hospitalized), SIT
                      can be authorized.
             (6) Direct Delivery Change: If a direct delivery request is changed because the customer
                 cannot accept direct delivery, the TSP must request SIT through DPS. DPS sends
                 notification to the PPSO work queue and e-mail. After the PPSO approves the request,
                 DPS issues a SIT control number to the TSP.
                  The customer may change their direct delivery request by deleting their delivery address
                  in DPS via the customer work queue. If the delivery address is removed prior to the
                  arrival of the shipment and the TSP has contacted or attempted to contact the customer
                  within the required 24 hours, the TSP can request SIT approval in DPS. DPS sends
                  notification to the PPSO work queue and e-mail. After the PPSO approves the request,
                  DPS issues a SIT control number to the TSP.
        c. Converting SIT:
             (1) Shipments remain in SIT until converted to the customer’s expense by the PPSO and is
                 not retroactive. The PPSO cannot convert a shipment to commercial storage prior to
                 contacting the customer or their duly appointed representative. DPS tracks the date the
                 customer was contacted and informed of SIT conversion to customer expense. After the
                 shipment converts to the customer expense, DPS processes the shipment delivery out of
                 SIT; however, DPS maintains visibility of the shipment while in storage at the
                 customer’s expense. When converted to customer expense, the customer is still entitled
                 to delivery out of storage paid for by the Government.
                  NOTE: Members of the DoW community, to include Active duty Coast Guard members
                  can normally be located at https://dod411.gds.disa.mil.
             (2) The TSP’s responsibility for a shipment and its liability under the BL for a shipment in
                 SIT terminates and the warehouse becomes the final destination of the shipment on
                 midnight of the day specified in the notice the TSP receives through DPS advising the
                 Government the shipment has terminated. The notice of termination is not retroactive.
                  NOTE: For detailed business rules on SIT, refer to the Domestic 400NG Tariff and/or
                  the International Tender.
    6. Request Accessorials:
        a. See Appendix A-A, Third Party Payment System, regarding the management and approval of
           services submitted by the TSP. DPS tracks services for which approval is requested by a
           TSP. Pre-approval can be requested for both origin and destination services. The TSPs must
           enter the accessorial services in DPS to obtain approval. DPS displays all accessorials
           requiring pre-approval and the pre-approval status. Pre-approval records are assigned a status
           of "Pending" when they are created. After reviewing, the PPSO must change the status to
           "Approved" or "Denied" according to the required action. After accessorial services are
           received by DPS for final approval prior to costing and payment, DPS compares the pre-
           approval data to the services submitted for final approval. Services pre-approved are flagged
           as pre-approved. Services denied are flagged as pre-denied.




                                                IV-A-402-19
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    14 July 2026
Personal Property


        b. DPS notifies the PPSOs electronically when actions need to be taken. This includes the
           following:
             (1) E-mails sent to a PPSO up to four times a day or as needed. Times are relative to the
                 time zone of the PPSO.
             (2) Notifications provide a summary of the number of each type of outstanding item (e.g.,
                 pending approval, overdue).
             (3) Notifications include notice of services submitted for pre-approval that must be acted on
                 by the PPSO.
             (4) E-mails include notice of services submitted for approval that are overdue (e.g., more
                 than three (3) GBDs since submission by TSP) for action by the PPSO.
                  NOTE: E-mail notifications are only sent if the PPSO has outstanding actions.
    7. Reweigh:
        a. If the customer requests a reweigh from either the PPSO or the TSP, the request must be
           entered in DPS as a pre-approval. The PPSO must approve or deny the accessorial. The PPSO
           will make every effort to witness ordered reweighs. The following applies:
             (1) If a customer believes their shipment will exceed or be within 90 percent of their weight
                 allowance, the customer may request a reweigh.
             (2) The PPSO may order a reweigh when possible excess costs exist or when the accuracy
                 of the weight is in question.
             (3) DPS does not allow reweighs on HHG shipments weighing less than 500 pounds or UB
                 shipments weighing less than 100 pounds, unless the customer is near or has exceeded
                 the authorized weight allowance.
             (4) The PPSO and the customer may observe shipment weighing. Upon request, the TSP
                 must advise either the PPSO or the customer of the time and specific location for each
                 weighing and provide reasonable opportunity for interested parties to be present at the
                 weighing.
        b. The TSP must enter the reweigh information (e.g., gross; tare; net weights; weight ticket
           number (if applicable); and reweigh date) into DPS and submit weight tickets to the ordering
           PPSO within seven (7) working days.
    8. Printing Shipment Documentation:
        a. DPS ensures the procedures and provides guidance for the use, issuance, preparation, and
           distribution of all documentation. The following documentation is generated by DPS in
           support of DP3.
             (1) DD Form 1780, Shipment Evaluation and Inspection Record, available at
                 https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. Evaluation of the TSP performance begins when the origin
                 PPSO offers a shipment through DPS to the TSP. Acceptance of the offer binds the TSP
                 to perform IAW the general terms established by the DoW and agreed upon by the TSP
                 and the specific terms contained on the BL and the rate solicitation.
             (2) DD Form 619, Statement of Accessorial Services Performed, available at
                 https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. This form supports TSP billings for materials and services
                 not included in the LH transportation or SFR.
             (3) DD Form 1814, Transportation Service Provider (TSP) Notice of
                 Warning/Suspension/Reinstatement/Cancellation, available at


                                                IV-A-402-20
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                       14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. This is used to notify the TSP of a warning, suspension,
                  reinstatement, or cancellation action. The letter of suspension must state the customer’s
                  name, the BL number, and the exact violation and/or rate solicitation paragraph violated
                  on the shipment or shipments resulting in the suspension action.
             (4) DD Form 1857, Storage In-Transit (SIT) at Government Expense, available at
                 https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. This form is used to request additional storage at the
                 Government’s expense via DPS, when HHG in temporary storage at the Government’s
                 expense cannot be withdrawn prior to the SIT expiration date. Additional storage for not
                 more than an additional 90 days may be authorized by the PPSO or such other officer as
                 the Service may designate.
             (5) DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. DPS
                 generates this form when the PPSO is required to collect money from the customer for
                 excess cost.
             (6) DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization, Figure A-402-1. This form is generated
                 by DPS to collect charges incurred by the customer for services not authorized at the
                 Government’s expense and for the collection of excess costs. Collection is normally
                 accomplished through the issuance of a Pay Adjustment Authorization (DD Form 139)
                 for the customer in a pay/non-pay status at destination.

E. DIVERSIONS
    1. General:
        The following details diversion procedures. The term “diverted” or “diversion” is a change to a
        new destination point more than 30 miles from the original destination point in transit but does
        not include shipments in SIT at destination and OTO shipments. If a shipment is diverted to a
        warehouse for SIT at a point other than original destination, the warehouse is considered the
        destination point, and transportation charges to the warehouse are assessed according to the rate
        solicitation. If instructions are received to change the destination of a shipment that is in SIT at
        destination, transportation guidelines under the provisions of pickup/delivery transportation
        applies.
    2. Proper Execution of Diversions for Domestic Shipments:
        The following outlines the procedures for those shipments involving domestic diversions:
        a. Order/Authorization Issuance Activity issues a new order/authorization or amendments to
           current order/authorization for the customer while their shipment is in transit.
        b. The customer must immediately contact and provide a copy of the new order/authorization
           issued to the origin PPSO. If this information is disclosed to any PPSO other than the origin
           PPSO, the notified PPSO will process the diversion and notify the origin PPSO within 24
           hours.
        c. PPSOs must take the following actions:
             (1) Send an inquiry to the TSP to find where the shipment is physically located and advise
                 them to hold the shipment at that point.
                  (a)   The TSP must locate the shipment en route and effect the change desired. The TSP
                        is not held responsible for failure to effect the change ordered, unless such failure
                        is due to error or negligence of the TSP or its employees.




                                                 IV-A-402-21
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  (b) Determine the location of the shipment en route to determine the Diversion Point.
                      The Diversion Point is the closest county/city combination of the closest BLOC
                      AOR.
             (2) Create a Diversion Certificate and contact the TSP of the diversion.
                  (a)   The PPSO must submit an order for diversion and provide the Diversion Certificate
                        to the TSP.
                  (b) The TSP must affix the Diversion Certificate and other required documents to
                      support billing charges.
                  (c)   Rates for the channel from origin PPSO to Diversion Point and from Diversion
                        Point to new destination PPSO will be IAW solicitation/tender.
             (3) Contact the original destination PPSO of the customer’s diversion.
                  Provide documentation that the diversion did indeed occur.
             (4) Contact the new destination PPSO of the customer’s diversion and forward the
                 Diversion Certificate.
    3. Proper Execution of Diversions for International Shipments: The following outlines the
       procedures for those shipments involving international diversions:
        a. Order/Authorization Issuance Activity issues a new order/authorization or an amendment to
           current order/authorization to the customer while customer’s shipment is in transit.
        b. The customer must immediately contact and provide a copy of the order/authorization to the
           PPSO of the change in assignment. If this information is disclosed to any PPSO other than
           the origin PPSO, it is the notified PPSO’s responsibility to process the diversion and to notify
           the origin PPSO within 24 hours.
        c. The notified PPSO must do the following:
             (1) Create the Diversion Certificate. The Certificate must provide the authenticity of the
                 diversion and the information required to be disclosed to the appropriate parties.
             (2) Contact the TSP of the diversion.
                  (a) The PPSO must submit an order for diversion and the Diversion Certificate to the
                      TSP. The TSP must affix the Diversion Certificate and other documents to support
                      billing charges.
                  (b) The TSP must provide diligent effort to locate the shipment and effect the change
                      desired. The TSP is not responsible for failure to effect the change ordered, unless
                      such failure is due to error or negligence of the TSP or its employees.
                  (c) Determine the location of the shipment en route to determine the Diversion Point.
                      A diversion is made only at a water or aerial port of embarkation (POE), a water or
                      aerial port of debarkation (POD), or a destination point.
                  (d) Rate for the channel from the origin PPSO to the Diversion Point and from the
                      Diversion Point to the new destination PPSO will be IAW solicitation/tender.
             (3) Contact the original destination PPSO of the customer’s diversion.
             (4) Contact the new destination PPSO of the customer’s diversion and forward the
                 Diversion Certificate.




                                                IV-A-402-22
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                       14 July 2026
Personal Property


    4. Diversion Scenarios: The following section highlights different scenarios that may occur when
       handling diversion shipments.
        a. International shipments with CONUS origin.
             (1) Shipment diverted at CONUS water or aerial POE.
                  (a)   Diverted to a CONUS destination point.
                        1   There must be no diversions to a CONUS destination point.
                        2   Shipment must be terminated at the POE and the international nature of the
                            movement ceases.
                        3   Movement to the CONUS destination point must be effected under domestic
                            procedures (Code 2 or DPM).
                  (b) Diverted to a different overseas rate area using the same (original) POE where the
                      diversion is effected. Use of the TSP’s SFR from the origin to the new overseas
                      rate area.
                  (c)   Diverted to a different overseas rate area using a different (new) POE.
                        1   Use the LH rate table from the origin to the original POE where the diversion
                            is effected.
                        2   Use the TSP’s SFR from the original POE where the diversion is effected to
                            the new overseas rate area.
             (2) Shipment diverted at an overseas water or POD.
                  (a) Diverted to a CONUS destination point.
                        1   There must be no diversion to a CONUS destination point.
                        2   The shipment must be terminated at the POD and reshipped to the CONUS.
                  (b) Diverted to an overseas destination point in the same overseas rate area as the
                      original destination point. Use the TSP’s SFR from the origin to the destination
                      rate area (no change in SFR).
                  (c)   Diverted to an overseas destination point in another rate area.
                        1   There must be no diversion.
                        2   Shipment must be terminated at the POD and the PPSO must contact DoW
                            PPA for further instructions.
                  (d) Diverted to an overseas destination point in another overseas rate area which uses a
                      different POD but no further over water transportation is required.
             (3) Diverted to an overseas destination point in another rate area.
                  (a)   There must be no diversion.
                        1   Shipment must be terminated and the PPSO must contact DoW PPA for further
                            instructions.
                  (b) Diverted to an overseas destination point in another overseas rate area which uses a
                      different (new) POD and where further over water transportation is required.
                        1   There must be no diversion to a new overseas rate area requiring further over
                            water transportation.



                                                 IV-A-402-23
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    14 July 2026
Personal Property


                        2   This shipment must be terminated at the POD IAW Termination of Shipment.
                        3   Use of the intertheater or intratheater rate and procedure from the POD where
                            termination is effected to the new destination point.
             (4) Shipments diverted at overseas destination.
                  (a) Diverted to a CONUS destination point.
                        1 There must be no diversion to a CONUS destination point.
                        2 Shipment must be terminated at the overseas destination point and reshipped.
                  (b) Diverted to an overseas destination point in the same overseas rate area as the
                      original destination point.
                        1 Use the TSP’s SFR from the origin to the destination rate area. (No change in
                          the SFR.)
                        2 Use applicable LH rate table (see International Tender) for mileage rate
                          between the original and the new destination.
                        3 A handling charge equal to the warehouse handling charge applies.
                  (c)   Diverted to an overseas destination point in another rate area.
                        1   There must be no diversion.
                        2   Shipment must be terminated and the PPSO must contact DoW PPA for further
                            instructions.
                  (d) Diverted to an overseas destination point in another overseas rate area which
                      requires further over water transportation.
                        1   There must be no diversion. The original SFR applies.
                        2   Shipment must be reshipped IAW rules for reshipments.
        b. Shipments with Overseas Origins:
             (1) Shipment diverted at overseas water or aerial POE.
                  (a)   Diverted at an overseas POE, on an intertheater or intratheater movement, to a
                        destination point in the CONUS.
                        1   There must be no diversion.
                        2   The shipment must be terminated at the overseas POE. Use the intertheater
                            transportation rate and procedure from the origin to overseas POE where
                            termination is effected. Termination of Shipment applies.
                        3   Reshipment to the new CONUS destination is made under the provisions of
                            Reshipments.
                  (b) Diverted at the overseas POE from a destination point in one CONUS rate area to a
                      new destination point in another CONUS rate area.
                        1   Use the TSP’s SFR from the origin to the new CONUS rate area.
                        2   If the TSP does not have a SFR from the origin to the new CONUS rate area,
                            terminate and reship IAW provisions contained herein.




                                                 IV-A-402-24
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                       14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  (c)   Diverted at an overseas POE to an overseas destination point in the same overseas
                        rate area as the POE where the diversion is effected.
                        1   Use the intratheater transportation rate and procedure for movement from
                            origin to the POE where the diversion is effected.
                        2   Use the intratheater transportation rate from the POE where diversion is
                            effected to the new destination point.
                  (d) Diverted at the overseas POE to another overseas destination point in another
                      overseas rate area.
                        1   Use the intertheater or intratheater transportation rate and procedure from
                            origin to the POE where the diversion is effective.
                        2   Use the intratheater or intertheater transportation rate from the POE where the
                            diversion is effected to the new destination point.
             (2) Shipment diverted at CONUS/overseas water or aerial POD.
                  (a)   Diverted at a CONUS POD to a new CONUS destination point in the same
                        CONUS rate area as the original destination point. Use the TSP’s SFR from origin
                        to destination CONUS rate area (no change in SFR).
                  (b) Diverted at a CONUS POD to a destination point in another CONUS rate area
                      which uses the same POD.
                        1   Use the TSP’s SFR from origin to the new CONUS rate area.
                        2   If the TSP does not have a SFR on file from the origin to the new CONUS rate
                            area, use the TSP’s SFR to the original CONUS destination rate area with land
                            distance adjustment computed as follows:
                            a   If distance between the CONUS POD used and the original destination
                                point is less than the distance between the CONUS POD used and the new
                                destination point, the TSP must be paid for such excess distance IAW LH
                                rate tables in addition to the SFR.
                            b   If the distance between the CONUS POD used and original destination
                                point exceeds the distance between the CONUS POD used and the new
                                destination point, an adjustment of the distance differential accrues to the
                                Government at 100 percent of the LH rate table for the difference in
                                distance. This amount is deducted from the SFR.
                  (c)   Diverted at a CONUS POD to a destination point in another CONUS rate area
                        which uses a different POD.
                        1   Use the SFR from origin to the original CONUS destination rate area with land
                            distance adjustment for distance differential between the CONUS POD used to
                            original destination and the CONUS POD used to the new destination.
                        2   Adjustments for distance differentials are computed as follows:
                            a   If distance between the CONUS POD used and the original destination
                                point is less than the distance between the CONUS POD used and the new
                                destination point, the TSP must be paid for excess distance in addition to
                                the SFR.
                            b   If distance between the CONUS POD used and the original destination
                                point exceeds the distance between the CONUS POD used and the new


                                                 IV-A-402-25
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                       14 July 2026
Personal Property


                                destination point, and adjustment of the distance differential accrues to the
                                Government at 100 percent of the LH rate table for the difference in
                                distance, this amount must be deducted from the SFR.
                  (d) Diverted at a CONUS POD to a destination point in overseas rate area.
                        1   There must be no diversion.
                        2   The shipment must be terminated at the POD and reshipped to the new
                            overseas destination.
                  (e)   Diverted at an overseas POD, on an intertheater or intratheater movement to a
                        destination point in the CONUS.
                        1   There must be no diversion.
                        2   The shipment must be terminated at the overseas POD. Use the intertheater or
                            intratheater transportation rate and procedure from the origin to the overseas
                            POD where the termination is affected.
                        3   Reshipment to the new CONUS destination must be made under provisions of
                            Reshipment.
                  (f)   Diverted at an overseas POD to a new destination point in an overseas rate area.
                        1   Use the intertheater or intratheater transportation rate and procedure from the
                            origin to the POD where the diversion occurred.
                        2   Use the intertheater or intratheater transportation rate from the POD when the
                            diversion is effected to the new destination point.
             (3) Shipment diverted at the CONUS destination.
                  (a)   Diverted to another CONUS destination.
                        1   Use TSP’s SFR to original destination.
                        2   Use LH rate table for the distance rate between the original and the new
                            destination.
                        3   A holding charge equal to the minimum storage rate and a handling charge
                            equal to a warehouse handling charge apply.
                  (b) Diverted to another overseas area. There is no diversion to an overseas area. The
                      shipment must be reshipped.
             (4) Inter/Intra Theater Shipments. Shipments diverted at an intermediate water/aerial port.
                  (a)   There must be no diversion.
                  (b) The shipment must be terminated at the intermediate port.
                  (c)   Reshipment to new destination must be made on a new BL.

F. TSP MODULE
    1. Shipment Award/Offer:
        a. DPS awards shipments to qualified TSPs in a round robin rotation based on BVS. DPS offers
           the shipment to the TSP based on the customer-unique shipment indicators, including type of
           shipment, desired pickup and delivery times, transit time, and the origin to destination
           combination (channel) information obtained during counseling. TSPs see only those



                                                 IV-A-402-26
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                        14 July 2026
Personal Property


             shipments with their Standard Carrier Alpha Code (SCAC) assigned. DPS notifies the TSP in
             the DPS work queue when new or updated booking requests and cancellations are posted.
             DPS monitors the TSP response to shipment offers to ensure timely acceptance (24 hours).
        b. If the TSP fails to respond to a shipment offer within 24 hours from the date/time offered,
             (1) DPS notifies the PPSO QA and PPSO Outbound in DPS and generates an e-mail to the
                 TSP indicating that the TSP failed to respond in a timely manner to the shipment award
                 (“Notice of Non-Response”). DPS marks the e-mail “URGENT” and sends it to the
                 TSP-provided e-mail addresses.
             (2) DPS allocates the TSP a shipment and offers the shipment to the next available TSP.
             (3) DPS does not “automatically” remove the TSP (inactivate the TSP) from the system or
                 market. This is an overt action by the PPSO to ensure that the “Non-Response” was not
                 due to electronic failure.
             (4) Following confirmation by the PPSO QA that the “Non-Response” was not due to a
                 system problem, a DD Form 1814 must be issued and the TSP immediately suspended
                 for 30 days out of that market BLOC(s).
                  NOTE: At the time the shipment is awarded, the BL number is assigned but DPS does
                  not allow the forms to be printed. The BL is not accessible for printing until after the
                  TSP has entered the pre-move survey data (e.g., agreed upon pack/pick-up dates,
                  estimated weights). At this time, DPS allows the TSP and PPSO user(s) to print the BL.
    2. Shipment Refusal:
        a. Shipment refusals are not permitted in the DP3 except for short-fused shipments (i.e., pickup
           within five (5) GBDs or less, or shipments with a shortened transit time) since the TSP can
           perform daily updates of blackout dates. If a TSP refuses a shipment, the TSP may be
           ineligible to receive shipments in that category for 30 calendar days. DPS determines the
           next TSP to receive an offer because of refusals.
        b. TSPs will enter the name and phone number of the origin representative within DPS at the
           time of shipment acceptance. TSPs must update (when applicable) any changes to the origin
           representative servicing the shipment prior to performing the pre-move survey.
             NOTE: DoW PPA may modify shipment refusal procedures as industry capacity situations
             change. DoW PPA will issue a Customer Advisory 10 business days prior to any changes
             taking effect.
    3. Pre-Move Survey:
        a. The pre-move survey ensures the successful movement of a shipment. The pre-move survey
           is used to:
             (1) Establish the volume of goods to be transported (Weight).
             (2) Make provisions for any special packaging according to the goods (Crates).
             (3) Ascertain any other difficulties, for example if access to the house is difficult (e.g.,
                 shuttle, crane required).
             (4) Confirms or establishs agreed-upon pack and pickup dates.
        b. The TSP must attempt to make initial contact with the customer within three (3) GBDs of
           shipment booking to provide the customer with their contact and pre-move information. DPS
           sends a notification to the customer providing the TSP’s name and telephone number. If
           necessary, the customer can directly call the TSP regarding the pre-move survey. The TSP is


                                                  IV-A-402-27
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                     14 July 2026
Personal Property


             required to conduct an in residence pre-move survey on all domestic shipments estimated at
             4,700 pounds or more and international shipments estimated at 3,200 pounds or more within
             a 50-mile radius of their servicing facility. This requirement applies to all shipments with a
             five (5) GBD minimum notice in advance of the shipment pickup date. Telephone surveys
             may be made on short-fuse shipments and shipments of lesser weight and/or those with
             pickup points exceeding 50 miles from their servicing facility. Subject to customers
             availability, the TSP must complete the pre-move survey and update DPS with pre-move
             survey data (estimated weight, pack/pickup dates, and RDD information) as soon as possible
             but NLT three (3) GBDs prior to the pickup date. For short-fuse shipments: The TSP is
             required to conduct pre-move survey (physically or telephonically) and enter pre-move data
             (e.g., estimated weight, pack/pickup dates, including all changes) in DPS as soon as possible
             but NLT one (1) GBD prior to the first pack/pickup date. The TSP must enter the pre-move
             weight and the agreed pack and pickup dates before the BL can be printed.
    4. Requesting Accessorials:
        a. DPS supports the process outlined in Appendix A-A, Third Party Payment System, for the
           management of approval of services submitted by the TSP. DPS provides tracking of TSP
           requested pre-approval services to receive PPSO approval prior to performing the service.
           Pre-approvals can be requested on both origin and destination services. The TSPs and/or
           their agents must enter the accessorial services for pre-approval. Pre-approval records are
           assigned a status of “Pending” when they are created. DPS displays all pre-approval
           requested accessorials and the status of the pre-approval. The PPSO must change the status
           to "Approved" or "Denied". DPS uses the pre-approval data to compare against services
           submitted for final approval. If it is determined a service was pre-approved, it is flagged as
           being pre-approved. If it is determined that a service was denied, it is flagged as being
           denied.
    5. Requesting SIT:
        NOTE: All shipments placed in SIT must be approved via DPS.
        a. SIT is used at destination when a shipment arrives before the customer has established a
           delivery address. However, it may be used at the origin or at an intermediate point when
           considered by the PPSO to be in the best interest of the customer and the Government.
           Subject to PPSO approval, the TSP may use any DoW-approved SIT facility. SIT and related
           charges are based on the destination city or installation shown in Block 18 of the BL unless
           authorized by the servicing PPSO. DPS will allow the TSP to place a shipment into SIT with
           approval as follows:
             (1) Customer Requested a Direct Delivery (during counseling) and Direct Delivery Address
                 is Printed on the BL. Upon arrival at destination, the TSP must arrive the shipment in
                 DPS. If the TSP is unable to coordinate delivery with the customer within the required
                 24 hours, the TSP may submit a request for approval of storage in DPS. DPS will send a
                 SIT approval request to the PPSO. The PPSO will review request and determine to
                 approve/disapprove SIT accordingly. If SIT is approved by the PPSO, DPS will issue
                 the SIT number.
             (2) No Direct Delivery Requested or Delivery Address (Printed on the BL): Upon shipment
                 arrival at the destination, the TSP must arrive the shipment in DPS and telephonically
                 contact the customer within the required 24 hours. Once the TSP has determined the
                 customer is not available to accept delivery, the TSP may submit a request for SIT
                 approval in DPS and DPS will issue the required SIT number to the TSP.




                                                IV-A-402-28
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


             (3) If the shipment is a release out of NTS, it should not be placed in SIT at destination.
                 However, if SIT is required (e.g., customer’s house becomes unavailable, customer
                 hospitalized) the TSP must request SIT via DPS.
             (4) A shipment released from SIT at the origin should not be placed into SIT at destination.
                 However, SIT can be authorized due to reasons beyond the control of the customer (e.g.,
                 customer’s house becomes unavailable, customer hospitalized). SIT must be approved
                 via DPS.
             (5) Direct delivery changed (e.g., customer can no longer accept direct delivery therefore
                 the shipment must be placed into SIT at destination). After the TSP requests SIT, DPS
                 notifies the PPSO in their work queue that approval is pending.
             (6) SIT for Split Shipments. If a shipment arrives at destination as a split shipment and the
                 customer is unavailable to receive any portion, SIT may be authorized separately on
                 each portion. DPS issues a separate SIT control number for each portion of the split
                 shipment. The TSP is required to obtain a separate weight ticket and a separate SIT
                 control number for each portion of the split shipment. The cost of weighing each portion
                 is borne by the TSP. The Government does not pay the minimum weight as applicable
                 to storage for portion of split less than the minimum weight. There is no partial delivery
                 authorized for employees. After the TSP requests SIT, DPS notifies the PPSO in their
                 work queue that approval is pending.
                  NOTE: Refer to the Domestic 400NG Tariff and International Tender for detailed
                  business rules on split shipments.
    6. Extending SIT:
        a. A customer or alternate can request additional SIT, as necessary through DPS. A copy of DD
           Form 1857, available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD, must be completed by the customer in
           DPS. The DD Form 1857 is forwarded to the PPSO for approval. DPS sends notification to
           the PPSO of the customer request for additional SIT. When SIT is extended, the PPSO must
           notify the TSP of the extension and the projected termination date. After the DD Form 1857
           has been approved by the PPSO, DPS sends notification to the TSP that the storage has been
           extended and advises the TSP of the new expiration date. When an extension is denied, the
           PPSO must notify the customer that their request for additional storage has been denied. In
           addition, the PPSO must advise the customer of the current storage expiration date and their
           responsibility to arrange for delivery or continued storage at the customer’s expense.
    7. Converting SIT:
        a. When a SIT shipment is close to the expiration date, DPS notifies the customer that the
           storage must be extended or storage will convert to their expense. DPS tracks the date the
           customer was contacted and informed that SIT will be converted to customer’s expense. The
           PPSO cannot convert a shipment to commercial storage prior to contacting the customer or
           their duly appointed representative. After converted to customer’s expense, DPS processes
           the shipment as a delivery out of SIT. DPS maintains visibility of shipment while in storage
           at the customer’s expense (see NOTE 1).
        b. The TSP’s responsibility for a shipment and its liability under the BL for a shipment in SIT
           terminates, and the warehouse becomes the final destination of the shipment on midnight of
           the day specified in the DPS notification advising TSP the shipment will terminate. The
           notice of termination is not retroactive.
             NOTE 1: When converted to customer’s expense, the customer is still entitled to delivery out
             of storage paid by the Government.


                                                 IV-A-402-29
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


             NOTE 2: For detailed business rules on SIT, refer to the domestic and international tariffs.
    8. Updating Shipment Information:
        a. Shipment changes include administrative changes (e.g., contact, shipment information,
           cancellations, terminations, pull-backs, and diversions). The TSP can modify shipment
           information (addresses, phone numbers, weights) submitted by the customer or alternate after
           the pre-move survey has been performed. The following applies:
        b. DPS allows the TSP to make modifications to data submitted by the customer or alternate:
             (1) After the pre-move survey has been performed and the TSP has confirmed the “actual
                 dates” with the customer or alternate, the TSP must update the shipment record in DPS
                 to reflect the actual pack and pickup dates.
             (2) After the pre-move survey has been performed, if the TSP determines the estimated
                 weight provided was incorrect, the TSP must update the shipment record in DPS to
                 reflect the new estimated shipment weight.
             (3) After the pre-move survey has been performed, if the TSP receives notice that the
                 customer or alternate has a delivery address and now requests a direct delivery, the TSP
                 must update the shipment record in DPS to reflect the new address and planned/agreed
                 delivery date.
             (4) If the requested changes are made after the TSP has performed the pre-move survey and
                 the BL has been printed, the TSP must update the shipment information and DPS
                 notifies the PPSO of the shipment changes. The PPSO must generate a SF Form 1200,
                 available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD, to make the necessary changes and DPS must
                 send notification to the TSP.
        c. Weights:
             (1) The TSP must weigh each shipment and enter the gross, tare, and net weight of all
                 shipments in DPS after the shipment has been picked up. The TSP must submit weight
                 tickets, reflecting gross, tare, and net weights properly certified IAW solicitation/tender
                 to the ordering officer with documentation according to Service requirements within
                 seven (7) working days.
                  (a)   When scales are not available or their use is not practical, and/or weight tickets
                        have been lost, the application of a constructive weight of seven pounds per cubic
                        foot may be used when approved by the responsible PPSO. (Refer to Appendix A-
                        B, Tender of Service).
             (2) PBP&E (also known as PRO or PRO-Gear) is included as part of the shipment, as
                 follows:
                  (a) The TSP is required to enter the weight of the PBP&E into DPS. If the shipment
                      contains consumables, the total weight of all consumables will be entered into DPS.
             (3) If the TSP fails to enter the shipment weights, DPS does not allow completion of the
                 following actions:
                  (a)   Invoicing for payment
                  (b) Updating in-transit information
                  (c)   Entering shipment arrival information
                  (d) Requesting SIT at destination (if required)



                                                 IV-A-402-30
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  (e)   Scheduling delivery.
        d. Shipment Status:
             (1) The TSP must access DPS to enter in-transit information for all personal property
                 moving from origin to destination. Shipment status includes:
                  (a)   Updated status codes (e.g., counseled, booked, in transit)
                  (b) En route status (the TSP enters comments on current location of shipment)
                  (c)   ETA at destination
                  (d) Delivery information (i.e., RDD and delivery date)
                  (e)   For shipments that enter the DTS, the TSP must provide the date the shipment
                        entered into the DTS and the date the shipment was received from the DTS.
             (2) After the TSP enters the shipment weight information in DPS, the shipment status code
                 changes to “IT” (in transit). At this time, the TSP can:
                  (a)   Invoice for payment
                  (b) Update in transit information
                  (c)   Enter shipment arrival information
                  (d) Request SIT at destination (if required)
                  (e)   Schedule delivery.
             (3) After the TSP enters the actual delivery date in the DPS, the shipment status changes to
                 “Delivered Complete.” At that time:
                  (a)   TSP can invoice for destination services
                  (b) Customer can complete Notice of Loss and Damage
                  (c)   Customer can initiate claim
                  (d) Customer completes the Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS).
                  NOTE: DPS maintains an audit trail of all changes made to the shipment record to
                  include who made changes and when changes were made. After the shipment has been
                  picked up and is in transit to the destination, the TSP can only update shipment
                  addresses and phone numbers of customers. The TSP cannot update the e-mail address
                  of the customer or alternate since there may be a conflict of interest with the CSS.
    9. Printing Shipment Documentation: The following documentation is generated in DPS to support
       DP3.
        a. PPGBL, available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD. Used for the acquisition of authorized
           transportation and related services from commercial TSPs for the movement of DoW-
           sponsored personal property shipments, mobile homes, and POVs eligible for movement on a
           BL. The BL is generated by DPS and is available to the PPSO, TSP, and the customer or
           alternate.
             NOTE: The TSP cannot print the BL until the pre-move survey information has been entered
             in DPS.




                                                 IV-A-402-31
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                       14 July 2026
Personal Property


    10. Preparation of the BL:
        a. The following preparation instructions are keyed to the numbered Blocks appearing on the
           BL. When different entries are required due to different methods of shipment (i.e., through
           Government bill of lading [TGBL], DPM, mobile home, or privately owned vehicle [POV]),
           instruction by shipment method is provided. In all other cases, the entry data provided is the
           same for all methods of shipments.
             (1) Block 1, Transportation Company and Agent Tendered To. Enter the full business name
                 of the initial LH TSP to which the shipment is tendered. The business name must
                 include the words “company,” “incorporated,” or “limited.” These words may be
                 abbreviated as CO., INC., and LTD. No other company or TSP abbreviation, initial, or
                 symbol may be used.
             (2) Block 2, SCAC. Enter the four-position SCAC assigned to the initial LH TSP by the
                 National Motor Freight Traffic Association.
             (3) Block 3, Service Code.
                  (a)   TGBL/International Through Government Bill of Lading (ITGBL) Shipments.
                        Enter the COS; such as code D, 2, 4, or J.
                  (b) Mobile Homes. Enter the code “S”.
             (4) Block 4, Shipment Number. When more than one shipment is made for an individual
                 customer, the BLs must be numbered in the same sequence as the DD Form 1299,
                 Application for Shipment and/or Storage of Personal Property, available at
                 https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD (for example, “1 of 3”, or “2 of 3”). When only one
                 shipment is made, enter “1 of 1”.
             (5) Block 5, Date B/L Issued. Enter the calendar date (day, month, and year) (e.g., 4
                 December 2014) on which the first entry is made in preparing the BL.
             (6) Block 6, Requested Packing Date. Enter the calendar date (day, month, and year) (e.g.,
                 5 December 2014) on which the TSP is to begin packing a TGBL shipment.
             (7) Block 7, Requested Pickup Date.
                  (a)   TGBL. Enter the requested pickup date or the date on which the TSP has agreed to
                        pick up the shipment (e.g., 6 December 2014).
                  (b) DPM.
                  (c)   Enter the date the shipment is picked up at the customer’s residence
                  (d) NTS facility, in cases where such pick up is performed by a DPM packing
                      contractor.
                  (e)   Enter the scheduled date of pickup by the common TSP in all other cases (e.g.,
                        pickup at SPOE or APOE or TO installation facility).
             (8) Block 8, RDD. Enter the RDD (day, month, and year) that the shipment is required at
                 the destination shown in Block 18 (e.g., 19 December 2014).
             (9) Block 9, No entry required.
             (10) Block 10, Property Owner’s Name, SSN, and Rank and Pay Grade. Enter the
                  customer’s name (last, first, middle initial), SSN (last four only), rank, and pay grade.




                                                 IV-A-402-32
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                     14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  Also enter the customer’s status (PCS, TDY, SEP, RET) and the unit and activity to
                  which assigned.
                  (a)   If the member’s grade is E-4 or below, indicate the maximum authorized weight
                        allowance per the JTR.
                  (b) For Navy shipments only, enter the customer’s rank or rate code. This code is the
                      one-digit alpha character immediately following the abbreviation and subhead in
                      the accounting data contained in the customer’s orders.
                  (c)   For customer, enter “WD” (with dependents) or “WOD” (without dependents).
                  (d) For deceased customer or deceased dependent(s) of a customer, annotate
                      “BLUEBARK” immediately following the name.
                  (e)   For early return of dependents, enter dependents name, followed by “dependent of”
                        and sponsors name, SSN (last four only), rank, and pay grade.
             (11) Block 11, Authority for Shipment. Enter the authority for shipment as shown on the
                  customer’s orders (such as order number, paragraph number, and order issuing agency).
             (12) Block 12, Date of Order. Enter the date the orders were issued.
             (13) Block 13, Extra Pickup/Delivery. When an extra pickup/delivery is requested, cross out
                  the service not applicable and enter the complete address.
             (14) Block 14, Department/Agency. Enter the sponsoring military Service/Agency or other
                  Agency.
             (15) Block 15, Transportation Control Number. Enter the Transportation Control Number
                  (TCN) for shipments that will move in the DTS.
                  (a)   The TCN will be constructed IAW procedures set forth in this Regulation, Part II.
                  (b) The 15th position of the TCN requires a code that designates the shipment as a
                      Code 5, J, T, or DPM shipment. For example, following is the list of current type
                      shipment codes authorized:
                            B – Unaccompanied baggage (DPM)
                            J – Unaccompanied baggage (TGBL) – Code J
                            H – Household goods (DPM)
                            K – Household goods (TGBL) – Code 5 (for surface) and Code T (for air)
                            P – POV.
             (16) Block 16, No entry required.
             (17) Block 17, Full Name of Shipper. Enter the full name of the military installation or
                  activity making the shipment.
             (18) Block 18, Consignee. Enter name, destination, delivery address, and rate area code (e.g.,
                  US11, US12, US13). Information must be as specific as possible (i.e., city, installation,
                  county, state, country). Rate area code is only required on ITGBL shipments.
                  (a)   TGBL Shipments.
                        1   Consigned to the customer. Enter the customer’s name (last name, first name,
                            and middle initial), rank/grade, and activity to which assigned (shipments
                            destined overseas--spell out the name of the activity and country—do not show



                                                 IV-A-402-33
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                       14 July 2026
Personal Property


                            APO/FPO number) or delivery address, including the street, city, county, state,
                            or country, and ZIP code.
                        2   Consigned to the customer’s agent. Enter the full name of the customer’s
                            designated agent, followed by the word “agent”, and the delivery address,
                            including the street, city, county, state, country, and ZIP code.
                        3   Consigned to a Commercial NTS Facility. Enter the full business name and
                            address of the commercial storage contractor, including the street, city, county,
                            state, and ZIP code.
                        4   Consolidated Shipments. A separate BL will be issued for each customer’s lot
                            in the consolidated shipment. The individual BL must be cross-referenced by
                            inserting the following statement in Block 27: “This is a consolidated
                            shipment comprised of BL numbers:” (list all other BL numbers involved in
                            the consolidated shipment).
                  (b) DPM Shipments.
                        1   DPM shipments are consigned IAW the PPCIG. For DPM shipments entering
                            the DTS, the CONUS SPOE or APOE will be entered. The final overseas
                            destination must appear in Block 20.
                        2   For shipments to the SPOE, the DDD the shipment is required at the SPOE
                            must be entered.
                  (c)   Mobile Homes. Enter the customer’s name (last name, first name, and middle
                        initial) (or the full name of the customer’s agent followed by the word “agent”),
                        and the delivery address, including the street, city, county, state, and ZIP code.
                  (d) POVs. Enter the customer’s name (last name, first name, and middle initial) (or the
                      full name of the customer’s agent followed by the word “agent”), and the delivery
                      address, including the street, city, county, state, and ZIP code, or, if destined to a
                      port, the ocean terminal.
             (19) Block 19, From. Complete address at point of pickup and rate area code (e.g., US11,
                  US12, US13). Rate area code is only required on ITGBL shipments.
                  (a)   Shipments from Residence. Enter the exact location of the property to be shipped,
                        including the street, city, or military installation, county, state, country, and ZIP
                        code.
                  (b) Shipments from Storage or Contractor’s Facility. Enter the name of the
                      commercial or government warehouse facility, including the street, city, county,
                      state, country, and ZIP code. For shipments from NTS, enter the stored net weight,
                      lot number, and service order number.
             (20) Block 20, Responsible Destination Installation/Office.
                  (a)   BLOC. Enter the destination TO BLOC in the designated block in Block 20.
                  (b) TGBL and DPM Shipments. Enter the name of the responsible destination TO,
                      state, ZIP code, or country, APO/FPO number, and the commercial telephone
                      number.
                  (c)   DPM Shipments entering the DTS. For DPM shipments entering the DTS, the
                        final overseas destination TO must be entered, not the CONUS SPOE/APOE,
                        which appears in Block 18.



                                                 IV-A-402-34
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  (d) Consolidated DPM Shipments entering the DTS. Enter the responsible destination
                      TO and BLOC receiving the largest shipment by weight.
             (21) Block 21, Bill Charges To: Enter “Bill To: US Bank Third Party Payment System”
                  only.
             (22) Block 22, Via:
                  (a)   TGBL Shipments. Leave blank.
                  (b) DPM Shipments.
                        1   INTL/AIR/COMM/DPM Shipments. Show the complete routing from the
                            origin to the final destination as provided by the initial TSP.
                        2   All Other DPM Shipments. Only the name of the originating TSP is necessary
                            unless it is to the advantage of the government to specify the connecting TSPs.
                            It is the obligation of the originating TSP to forward shipments over a route
                            providing the lowest published charges within the mode. When it is necessary
                            to route shipments, routing must be selected by experienced transportation
                            personnel who are aware of various tariff restrictions and limitations to ensure
                            that services are obtained at the lowest possible cost.
                  (c)   POVs. The same instructions apply as those shown under “All other DPM
                        Shipments.”
                  (d) Mobile Homes. For mobile home shipments, enter the method of movement (e.g.,
                      stowage, lowboy).
             (23) Block 23. No entry required.
             (24) Block 24, Appropriations Chargeable:
                  (a)   Army Shipments. Enter the movement designator code from the customer’s orders.
                        Also, for ITGBL shipments enter the four-digit Transportation Account Code
                        (TAC). TACs are available at https://beis.csd.disa.mil/beis-html/frontpage.html.
                  (b) Air Force Shipments. Enter the accounting data from the customer’s travel order.
                      For ITGBL shipments, enter the TAC. TACs are available at
                      https://beis.csd.disa.mil/beis-html/frontpage.html.
                  (c)   Navy Shipments. Enter the four-digit TAC shown in the customer’s orders. TACs
                        are available at https://beis.csd.disa.mil/beis-html/frontpage.html.
                  (d) Marine Corps Shipments. Enter the line of appropriation and Standard Document
                      Number from the customer’s orders. Marine Corps TAC guidance can be found at
                      http://www.marines.mil/Portals/59/MCO%204610.37F.pdf.
                  (e)   Coast Guard Shipments. Enter the accounting data indicated on the customer’s
                        travel order. It is normally located in Block 9 of the Coast Guard Form 5131,
                        Standard Travel Orders for Military Personnel, Figure A-402-3, or specified in the
                        body of a letter-format travel order.
                  (f)   All Other DoW Shipments. Enter the accounting data from the customer’s orders.
                        Also, for all ITGBL shipments enter the four-digit TAC shown in the customer’s
                        orders. Show the word “TAC” followed by the four-digit code. TACs are
                        available at https://beis.csd.disa.mil/beis-html/frontpage.html, then select
                        “TAC/LOA Inquiry (2875 Required)”, users are required to obtain a login ID and
                        password.



                                                 IV-A-402-35
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                     14 July 2026
Personal Property


             (25) Block 25, Remarks.
                  (a)   SIT:
                        1   TGBL Shipments Authorized SIT. If SIT was used at the origin, enter “_____
                            days SIT were used at origin”.
                        2   Shipments from NTS. If SIT was used, enter “_____ days temporary storage
                            were used at origin”.
                        3   Shipments Not Authorized SIT. Enter “SIT not authorized”.
                  (b) Export and Import Annotations. For shipments originating in the CONUS and
                      destined overseas, enter “For Export”. For shipments moving by air, originating
                      overseas, and destined for the CONUS, enter “Imported by Air”.
                  (c)   Unpacking at Destination. When the TSP does not perform packing services at
                        origin and unpacking services are required at destination, enter “Unpacking
                        Required at Destination.” This applies to shipments moving from NTS and UB
                        shipments when unpacking of UB is requested by the customer and authorized by
                        the PPSO. When unpacking is authorized on the BL, the TSP/agent will prepare a
                        DD Form 619, available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD, for labor charges. The
                        customer must initial the DD Form 619 to verify that unpacking services were
                        performed. If the BL for a shipment from NTS is not annotated, the destination TO
                        will authorize unpacking services on the DD Form 619.
                  (d) TGBL Notification:
                        1   Direct Delivery Requested. If the customer has made advance arrangements
                            with the origin TO for direct delivery to the destination residence, enter:
                            “Direct Delivery Authorized.”
                        2   Direct Delivery Not Requested. Enter “Before effecting delivery to a residence
                            or placing in storage, the TSP must notify the TO specified in Block 20”.
                        3   BLUEBARK Shipments. Enter “Direct Delivery is not authorized”. The TSP
                            must contact the TO specified in Block 20 for instructions.
                  (e)   Retrograde Shipments When Intermediate SIT Is Involved. Enter: The TSP must
                        request disposition instructions from the TO at the CONUS military ocean or air
                        terminal.
                  (f)   Mobile Homes:
                        1   Enter “Necessary repairs and services are authorized, not to exceed $150 total
                            (tire or tube replacement is excluded) without prior approval of the origin TO
                            or customer. The total specified may be greater than $150 if authorized by the
                            customer, in writing, at the time of counseling.”
                        2   Also enter amounts paid by the origin TO on a local contract for accessorial
                            services not performed by the customer or the TSP.
                        3   Army, Air Force, Marine Corps, and other Agencies personnel not remaining
                            in a pay status—insert the entitlement cost basis (maximum allowable cost) of
                            the mobile home shipment.
                        4   For Navy personnel, the cost basis is not shown.
                  (g) Special Authorization: For shipments made from or consigned to a point not
                      specified in the customer’s orders, enter “Shipment authorized from (city/military


                                                 IV-A-402-36
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


                        installation, county, and state/country) to (city/military installation, county, and
                        state/country).” For Army shipments, enter “Shipment to authorized destination
                        would have been under (enter DoW PPA rate solicitation) at a total cost of $ (enter
                        total charges).”
                  (h) Use of Government-Owned Containers. When government-owned containers are
                      used for shipments moving in TGBL service, enter the statement from the rate
                      solicitation. Also enter the number and type of containers used.
                  (i)   Administrative Weight Limitation. For shipments to or from OCONUS where
                        administrative weight limitations are in effect, enter the following notation:
                        “Maximum administrative weight allowance for household goods/unaccompanied
                        baggage is (insert weight).”
                        NOTE: Weight limitations for Navy shippers are listed on the customer’s orders.
                  (j)   NTS. When a shipment is consigned to a NTS facility, enter “For Non-temporary
                        Storage.”
                  (k) Firearms. When the shipment contains firearms, enter “This Shipment Contains
                      Firearms.”
                  (l)   Nonperformance of Interior Packing. When no packing of interior boxes (such as
                        cartons, drums, and dish packs) is performed on international containerized
                        shipments moving under SFRs, annotate the BL with the solicitation item number
                        and the statement, “Apply (show $ amount) per net cwt reduction to the SFR.”
                  (m) DPM and Code 5 Shipments Moving Through CONUS Military Ocean Terminals
                      (MOTs). Enter the pre-lodge, pre-delivery notification requirements as set forth by
                      the MOT in the PPCIG, Volume I (CONUS).
                  (n) POVs. Enter the year, make, serial number, license number, and any other
                      information necessary to identify the POV.
                  (o) Reweigh Required. When it is determined by the PPSO that a reweigh is
                      necessary, or when a reweigh is requested by the customer at origin, the PPSO
                      must annotate the BL with the words “REWEIGH REQUIRED”.
                  (p) DDD/ETA at POE. For Code 5 and T shipments, enter “DDD: (insert date) at the
                      POE.” Compute the date from the ETA (Block 16) shown on the TCMD.
                  (q) In-Transit Contact Information. During counseling, enter customer in transit
                      contact information (i.e., cell phone number, e-mail address) to assist in
                      communications regarding the move.
                  (r)   Boat Shipments:
                        1   For all boat/trailer shipments, the following statement should appear
                            “SHIPMENT CONTAINS BOAT.”
                        2   Block 25 – If the user indicated during counseling that they are “Willing to Pay
                            for Accessorial Services,” the system should annotate the following statement
                            in the remarks section: “Member is responsible for Accessorial Services.”
             (26) Block 26, Packages:
                  (a)   TGBL Shipments. Enter 1 LOT.
                  (b) DPM Shipments. Enter the number and type of containers (e.g., 1 FL – 2 CTNS).



                                                 IV-A-402-37
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  (c)   Mobile Home Shipments. Enter “1 EA” for Mobile Homes.
                  (d) POVs. Enter 1 VO.
             (27) Block 27, Description of Shipment. Enter the words “Household Goods,”
                  “Unaccompanied Baggage,” and “Personal Effects”; for “Mobile Home,” enter the
                  statement “Mobile Home with personal effects as indicated on the inventory” and the
                  length, width, and height (feet and inches). If the mobile home has an expando, indicate
                  “expandable” and specify type (such as single, double, or triple room and one side or
                  both sides). Also, display the “make, model, year, and serial number.”
             (28) For POVs, show the property classification and National Motor Freight
                  Classification/Standard Transportation Commodity Code number.
                  (a)   TGBL Containerized Shipments. The TSP must enter the total number of
                        containers and total cube, along with dimensions.
                  (b) DPM Shipments. After HHG or personal effects, the DPM contractor must enter
                      the aggregate weight and cube of the total number of each different type of
                      container shown in Block 26.
                  (c)   Mobile Homes. After “Mobile Home with personal effects as indicated on the
                        inventory,” enter the length, width, and height of the mobile home in feet and
                        inches. If the mobile home is the expando type, indicate “expandable” and specify
                        type (such as single, double, or triple room and one side or both sides). Also, enter
                        the make, model, year, serial number, current license number, state, and year
                        issued. If additional space is required, use the “remarks” block.
                  (d) DPM or POV Consolidated Shipments. A single BL with continuation sheets must
                      be issued. Enter “This is a consolidated shipment. See continuation sheet.” Each
                      individual shipment lot must be identified on the continuation sheet, and the
                      customer’s name, rank/grade, SSN (last four only), delivery address, and authority
                      for shipment must be specified.
                  (e)   Boat Shipments. (Commodity) for boats. The system will print “This shipment
                        contains a Boat” if the shipment contains a boat only and “This shipment contains a
                        Boat/Trailer” if the shipment contains a boat and trailer.
             (29) Block 28, Weight:
                  (a)   TGBL Shipments. The TSP must enter the gross, tare, and net weight in this
                        column. The net weight includes the weight of PBP&E and Consumable Items
                        (CONS).
                  (b) DPM Shipments. Enter the total gross, tare, and net weights of the shipment.
                  (c)   PBP&E. PBP&E must be weighed separately and the weight must be inserted in
                        the space provided.
                  (d) CONS. CONS must be weighed separately and the weight is annotated in the
                      space provided for PBP&E weight. CONS precede this weight in order to
                      distinguish between the weight of consumables and PBP&E.
             (30) Blocks 29 and 30, For Use by Destination TSP Only. The TSP must enter these data
                  elements for billing.
             (31) Block 31, Tariff or Special Rate Authorities. Enter the special rate authority and for
                  ITGBL shipments, the rate per cwt (such as, RS I-8/$52.50 cwt) and, for domestic
                  shipments enter percentage (such as RS D-5/95%). For all OTO shipments


                                                 IV-A-402-38
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    14 July 2026
Personal Property


                  (O/M/BOTO), enter the words “OTO”, the TSP’s “rate tender number,” and the OTO
                  “rate.”
             (32) Block 32a, Issuing Officer. Enter the name and title of the issuing TO. Signature of the
                  issuing TO is not required.
             (33) Block 32b, Issuing Office. Enter the BLOC and full name of the military installation or
                  activity issuing the BL.
             (34) Block 33a, Name of Transportation Company. Enter the same information as in
                  Block 1.
             (35) Block 33b, Date of Receipt of Shipment. The TSP must enter the actual date the
                  shipment is picked up.
             (36) Block 33c, Signature of Agent/Driver. The TSP/agent or driver must sign the BL
                  acknowledging receipt.
             (37) Block 33d, PER. If the agent’s name is signed by the agent’s authorized representative,
                  the initials of the representative must appear in this block.
             (38) Block 34, For Use of Paying Officer. The TO must check the block to identify the
                  reason for any excess cost involved in the shipment. The “Remarks” block must be used
                  to fully explain the reason for the excess cost. Block 34 must be marked for all Navy-
                  sponsored shipments that include a boat or mobile home.
             (39) Blocks 35a through 35g, Certificate of TSP Billing for Charges. The TSP authorized to
                  bill for charges must complete this portion of the BL after delivery has been
                  accomplished.
             (40) Block 36, Special Services Ordered (Reverse of BL). The issuing TO must enter any
                  special services authorized.
        b. Preparation of the SF Form 1200: See Table A-402-4.

G. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR ALASKA SHIPMENTS
    1. Domestic Shipments:
        a. dHHG shipments to/from CONUS and Alaska are identified as COS “D” or COS “2” (except
           OTO locations in Alaska [e.g., Adak, Nome, and Bethel])
        b. HHG shipments to/from Alaska can be moved either by Land (Alaska-Canadian Highway) or
           via Land-Sea-Land (Seattle or Tacoma water ports). TSPs will select the mode (L and or
           Land-Sea-Land) during acceptance of the Alaska shipment. The PPSO will validate that the
           TSP’s invoice reflects the actual route used. For example, if the TSP used the land mode to
           move the shipment, then the TSP must invoice based on land rates.
        c. Intrastate (Alaska-to-Alaska) shipments (e.g., Anchorage to Fairbanks) are classified by
           applicable rate area (e.g., US8101000, US8190100, US8050500, and US8030400) to
           Region 15.
        d. VM to/from Alaska or intrastate Alaska can move as COS “D” or COS “2”. See 400NG
           Tariff for guidance.
        e. 400NG applies to all domestic moves (except OTO shipments) to/from/within Alaska.
             NOTE: There are no UB moves under the domestic program.




                                                IV-A-402-39
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    14 July 2026
Personal Property


    2. International Shipments:
        a. Shipments to/from Alaska OTO areas and UB VM between CONUS and Alaska should be
           routed as follows:
             (1) HHG shipments will be routed as iHHG using COS “4”.
             (2) UB shipments will be routed as UB using COS 7, 8, or J.
        b. OTO, VM, iHHG, and UB shipments to/from Alaska from OCONUS locations will be routed
           as follows:
             (1) iHHG move as COS 4, 5, 6, or T.
             (2) UB move as COS 7, 8, or J.
    3. Mobile Homes to/from Alaska:
        a. Mobile homes moving between CONUS and Alaska must be booked as Code “S” and must
           be solicited under the OTO program.
        b. Mobile homes are not authorized for movement under the international program.
    4. Boat and Trailer to/from Alaska:
        Boats and/or boat trailers requiring OTO movement because of size limitations are shipped under
        the International OTO program for shipments moving between CONUS and Alaska, and for all
        boats moving between OCONUS and Alaska.

H. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
    1. Excess Weight Calculations: For Domestic, iHHG and UB shipments excess weight calculation
       examples see JTR Paragraph 051306, Excess Charges.
    2. Excess Distance:
        a. The following is an example of the DPS excess distance calculations when a customer elects
           to ship property between other than authorized locations. Customer contemplating shipment
           of personal property other than between authorized locations must be advised of possible
           excess cost. Excess costs may occur even if the distance is less than the distance between
           authorized locations. The initial excess costs are calculated using the estimated weight
           during counseling and recalculated based upon the actual weights after the shipment has been
           picked up. DPS “flags” all shipments having potential excess costs. The PPSO is only
           required to attempt collection of excess costs from the customer when they are no longer in a
           “Pay Status” (Separation). Paragraph b is an example of the DPS calculation of excess cost
           involving excess distance.
        b. Estimated Excess Costs:
             (1) Determine the mileage between authorized origin and destination as follows:
                  (a)   Authorized Origin and Destination: Alameda, CA, to New Orleans, LA.
                  (b) Total Miles: 2,285 miles.
             (2) Determine shipment cost between authorized origin and destination as follows:
                  (a)   Actual Origin and Destination: Alameda, CA, to New Orleans, LA.
                  (b) Mileage: 2,285 miles.
                  (c)   Estimated Weight of shipment: 17,000 lbs (170 cwt).



                                               IV-A-402-40
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    14 July 2026
Personal Property


                        NOTE: Cost is determined as follows: GCC =
                        Average (Avg) LH Cost + Avg. Packing/Unpacking Cost
             (3) Determine the mileage between requested origin and destination as follows:
                  (a)   Requested Origin and Destination: Alameda, CA, to Norfolk, VA.
                  (b) Total Miles: 2,989 miles.
             (4) Determine shipment cost between requested origin and destination as follows:
                  (a)   Requested Origin and Destination: Alameda, CA, to Norfolk, VA.
                  (b) Mileage: 2,989 miles.
                  (c)   Estimated Weight of shipment: 17,000 lbs (170 cwt).
                        NOTE: Cost is determined as follows: GCC = Avg. LH Cost + Avg.
                        Packing/Unpacking Cost.
             (5) Estimated Excess Distance Cost Computation will be calculated as follows:
                  (a)   Estimated Shipment Cost (4):                       $18,059
                  (b) Estimated Shipment Cost (2):                     -$17,007
                  (c)   Estimated Excess Cost to the customer:              $1,052
        c. DPS determines the Actual Costs as follows:
             (1) Determine the mileage between authorized origin and destination as follows:
                  (a)   Authorized Origin and Destination: Alameda, CA, to New Orleans, LA.
                  (b) Total Miles: 2,285 miles.
             (2) Determine shipment cost between authorized origin and destination as follows:
                  (a)   Actual Origin and Destination: Alameda, CA, to New Orleans, LA.
                  (b) Mileage: 2,285 miles.
                  (c)   Actual Weight of shipment: 17,000 lbs (170 cwt).
                        NOTE: Cost is determined as follows: GCC = Avg. LH Cost + Packing/Unpacking
                        Cost.
             (3) Determine the mileage between requested origin and destination as follows:
                  (a)   Requested Origin and Destination: Alameda, CA, to Norfolk, VA.
                  (b) Total Miles: 2,989 miles.
             (4) Determine shipment cost between requested origin and destination as follows:
                  (a)   Requested Origin and Destination: Alameda, CA, to Norfolk, VA.
                  (b) Mileage: 2,989 miles.
                  (c)   Actual Weight of shipment: 17,000 lbs (170 cwt).
                        NOTE: Actual Cost is determined as follows: LH Cost + Packing/Unpacking
                        Cost.




                                                IV-A-402-41
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                         14 July 2026
Personal Property


             (5) Excess distance computation is calculated as follows:
                  (a)   Actual Requested Shipment Cost (4):              $18,059
                  (b) Authorized Shipment Cost (2):                      -$17,007
                      (Use the Average LH rate for the channel)
                  (c)   Total Excess Cost:                                $1,052




                                               IV-A-402-42
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                      14 July 2026
Personal Property




                     Figure A-402-1. DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization



                                              IV-A-402-43
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                         14 July 2026
Personal Property




       Figure A-402-2. U.S. Government Bill of Lading – Privately Owned Personal Property




                                              IV-A-402-44
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                         14 July 2026
Personal Property




           Figure A-402-3. CG Form 5131, Standard Travel Order for Military Personnel




                                              IV-A-402-45
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                                 14 July 2026
Personal Property


                             Table A-402-1. dHHG/iHHG Shipment Quality Bands
                                                   Quality     Number of
                                                    Band       Shipments
                                                     1                 5
                                                     2                 3
                                                     3                 2
                                                     4                 1




                                  Table A-402-2. UB Shipment Quality Bands
                                                   Quality     Number of
                                                    Band       Shipments
                                                     1              50
                                                     2              30
                                                     3              20
                                                     4              10




                                    Table A-402-3. Codes of Service (COS)
                Applicable Shipment Survey Categories                            Codes of Service
            Domestic Household Goods (dHHG)                     D (Loose) and
            Domestic Household Goods (dHHG)                     2 (containerized)
            International Household Goods (iHHG)                4, 5, 6, and T
            Unaccompanied Baggage (UB)                          7, 8, and J
            Origin Storage
            Local Moves
            Non-Temporary Storage (NTS)
                                                                Domestic: N/A
            One Time Only (OTO)
                                                                International: 4, 5, 6,7, 8, T & J
                                                                Domestic: S
            Mobile Homes One Time Only (MOTO)
                                                                International: N/A
                                                                Domestic: S
            Boat One Time Only (BOTO)
                                                                International: 4 (currently)
            Direct Procurement Method (DPM) – Domestic          BA, BB, BC, BD, HA, HB, HC and HD
            Direct Procurement Method (DPM) – International     BE, BF, BG, BH, HE, HF, HG and HH
            Direct Procurement Method (DPM) – Inter-Theater     BK, BL, BM, BN, HK, HL, HM and HN
            Direct Procurement Method (DPM) – Intra-Theater     BP, BR, BW, BX, BY, HP, HR, HW, HX and HY
                                                                Domestic: D
            Volume Moves
                                                                International: 4, 5, 6,7, 8, T & J
            International shipments (CONUS to/from Canada ,
                                                                I
            Alaska, and Mexico)
           NOTE: See Paragraph G of this document for more information on Alaska shipments




                                                         IV-A-402-46
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                        14 July 2026
Personal Property


                   Table A-402-4. SF 1200 GBL Correction Notice and the Block(s)
                                  on the BL that Can be Modified
                                 Block        Description
                                   1          Agent Code
                                   3          Code of Service
                                   6          Requested Pack Date
                                   7          Requested Pickup Date
                                   8          Required Delivery Date
                                  10          Member Last Name
                                  10          Member First Name
                                  10          Member Middle Name or Initial
                                  10          Rank or Pay Grade
                                  10          Unit Gaining Member
                                  10          Authorized Weight
                                  11          Orders Number
                                  12          Orders Date
                                  13          Extra Pickup Street
                                  13          Extra Pickup City
                                  13          Extra Pickup County
                                  13          Extra Pickup State
                                  13          Extra Pickup Zip
                                  13          Extra Delivery Street
                                  13          Extra Delivery City
                                  13          Extra Delivery County
                                  13          Extra Delivery State
                                  13          Extra Delivery Zip
                                  15          Transportation Control Number
                                  18          Receiving Agent Name (Consignee)
                                  18          Delivery Street
                                  18          Delivery City
                                  18          Delivery County
                                  18          Delivery State
                                  18          Delivery Zip
                                  19          Pickup City
                                  19          Pickup City
                                  19          Pickup County
                                  19          Pickup State
                                  19          Pickup Zip
                                  24          Transportation Account Code
                                  24          Movement Designator Code
                                  24          Navy NMF Code
                                  25          Remarks




                                                   IV-A-402-47
