Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                4 February 2026
Personal Property


                                              APPENDIX A-A

                           THIRD PARTY PAYMENT SYSTEM (TPPS)

A. Introduction
    This appendix describes the Defense Personal Property Program (DP3) guidelines and procedures for
    electronic bill payment processes using the Defense Personal Property System (DPS). These payment
    processes use the Department of Defense (DoD) TPPS as a payment tool to reimburse Transportation
    Service Providers (TSP) for services rendered, provide information visibility for stakeholders,
    improve the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) and Finance Center (FINCEN)
    payment and collection process, and reduce paper documentation.
    1. Scope:
        a. These procedures apply to all the Services’ and Coast Guard’s Personal Property Shipping
           Offices (PPSO) and participating commercial TSPs. In order to participate in the DP3, TSPs
           must be DoD-approved and have a trading partner agreement on file with the TPPS provider.
           Any personal property shipment that moves on a bill of lading (BL) is a part of these
           procedures, with the exception of:
             (1) Shipments moved under contracts (e.g., delivery out of Storage In Transit [SIT] after
                 conversion to the customer’s expense).
             (2) Direct Procurement Method (DPM).
             (3) Personally Procured Moves.
             (4) Shipments moved under Privately Owned Vehicle (POV) contracts.
             NOTE: Non-temporary storage (NTS) invoicing procedures are contained in Paragraph G of
             this appendix.

B. Roles and Responsibilities
    1. Key Organizations/Stakeholders:
        a. Figure A-A-1 is a high-level context diagram of the organizations/stakeholders involved in
           the electronic payment of Personal Property. The figure is followed by a description of the
           roles and responsibilities of the stakeholders.




                                                 IV-A-A-1
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                  4 February 2026
Personal Property




                                      Figure A-A-1. Context Diagram
    2. The Personal Property electronic payment stakeholders:
        a. Order/Authorization Issuing Activity: The Order/Authorization Issuing Activity issues the
           movement order/authorization to the customer. This activity is responsible for relaying
           correct, valid, and appropriated accounting information on each order/authorization to include
           valid Transportation Account Code (TAC) and/or Standard Document Number (SDN).
        b. Funds Manager (FM): The FM is responsible for the funds cited. FM are individuals
           commonly located at command-level who manage financial resources to include major
           activity, sub-activity directors, and their representatives who are delegated fund certification
           responsibility. The FM resolves TAC/Line of Accounting (LOA)/Movement Designator
           Code (MDC) disputes with Orders Issuing Activity. The FM ensures sufficient funding
           levels that permit the timely payment of the TPPS Summary Invoice.
        c. Service Representative: Services are represented on the TPPS team. Each representative is
           responsible for Service-specific issue resolution, implementation coordination, and analysis.
           In addition, each Service representative works with the implementation team to make
           recommendations based on issues identified during implementation efforts.
        d. PPSO: The PPSO is responsible for receiving and processing movement orders using the
           DPS. The PPSO provides a BL to the TSP/agent. The PPSO resolves billing disputes with
           the TSP. The PPSO uses the DPS to approve invoices and generate an Electronic Data
           Interchange (EDI) 858 containing the Line-Haul (LH) and accessorial data, which is rated
           and sent to the TPPS. The PPSO is also responsible for approving TSP payment in TPPS as
           necessary.
        e. TSP: The TSP performs required services at origin and destination; picks up the shipment;
           transports the shipment to destination; provides destination delivery services; and provides
           weight tickets within seven (7) Government Business Days (GBD) after shipment pickup, as
           well as other supporting documents as required by each individual Service Headquarters


                                                  IV-A-A-2
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                   4 February 2026
Personal Property


             (HQ) (see note below). The TSP submits an EDI 859 invoice, along with a Notification of
             Service Completion (NOSC) to signal a completed invoice. TSPs can also use the Web
             interface in TPPS to build an invoice. The TSP is responsible for entering all accessorial
             services, weights, actual pickup date, actual delivery date to/from residence origin, and
             destination or SIT facility and for obtaining all required pre-approvals. The TSP receives
             payment from the TPPS and works with the PPSO to process any credit adjustments via the
             TPPS. TSPs are responsible for the resolution of all invoices in “Audit Exception” status in
             the TPPS.
             NOTE: Air Force and Navy documentation requirements are as follows: (1) for domestic
             shipments processed by an Air Force shipping office: weighted BL (Gross/Tare/Net/Pro
             Gear weights); weight tickets; DD Form 619, Statement of Accessorial Services Performed,
             Figure A-A-3; inventories; and third-party approval/invoices; and (2) for international
             shipments: weighted BL (Gross/Tare/Net/Pro Gear weights), weight tickets, inventories, and
             third-party approval/invoices. DD Form 619, Figure A-A-3, will be furnished when
             applicable.
        f.   TPPS Contractor. The DoD designated bank is responsible for issuing payment to TSPs
             based on the charges that are either automatically or manually approved by the PPSO in DPS.
             The bank also generates a Summary Invoice that is provided to the PPSO for approval and
             payment. The bank subsequently receives reimbursement from DFAS/FINCEN.
        g. Accountable Official: An individual responsible for providing a certifying officer with
           information, data, or services needed or required in the certification of vouchers for payment.
        h. Certifying Officer (CO): An individual designated to attest to the correctness of statements,
           facts, accounts, and amounts appearing on a voucher, or other documents. A certifying
           officer is pecuniary liable for payments in accordance with (IAW) 31 U.S.C. 3528.
           (reference Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation [DoDFMR]
           7000.14-R). The CO, who is designated or appointed by the Service or Coast Guard
           authority, is responsible for certifying the TPPS Summary Invoice. The CO must be a United
           States (U.S.) Government employee who does not disburse U.S. Government funds. The CO
           must print the Summary Invoice each billing cycle and certify the charges. After reviewing
           and signing the invoice, the CO submits the certified invoice to DFAS/FINCEN for payment
           to the bank. The CO certifies electronically for FA2 LOAs relayed by the DPS to the TPPS
           and prints the hard-copy Summary Invoice with text LOAs.
             NOTE: The appointed CO must be a DoD military, non-DoD military, U.S. civilian, or
             "direct hire" foreign local national civilian customer or a federal civilian employee of a non-
             DoD agency.
        i.   DFAS/FINCEN: As the disbursement agency, DFAS/FINCEN receives the certified
             Summary Invoices from the CO and processes the payments to the bank.
        j.   United States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM): USTRANSCOM is responsible
             for monitoring the accuracy of DPS’s rating engine for personal property shipments and
             administering the DoD Personal Property Shipment and Storage Programs. USTRANSCOM
             assists the Services and TSPs in the resolution of disputed charges. USTRANSCOM
             provides program oversight as well as regulatory and statutory support.
        k. General Services Administration (GSA): GSA is responsible for overseeing the pre-payment
           audit, performing the post-payment audits, and conducting administrative reviews. GSA
           relays their findings for the Armed Forces’ and USTRANSCOM’s guidance.




                                                   IV-A-A-3
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                                                                                                  4 February 2026
Personal Property


              l.       Customer: The customer receives a movement order/authorization from the Orders Issuing
                       Activity and relays the order/authorization to the PPSO or Personal Property Processing
                       Office (PPPO). The customer must sign documents as required.
      3. Implementation and Process Flow:
              a. Figure A-A-2 presents a step-by-step process flow diagram of the DP3 Electronic Bill (eBill)
                 Payment process. The diagram depicts the participating organizations as rectangles,
                 processes as ovals, and the lines between them as data and information flows. Each process
                 is described following the graphic depiction.

                     Orders Issuing                1. Orders
                                                                      Orders                    Customer
                                                   Issuance
                        Activity
                                                                                                                                          13. Post Payment
                                                                                                                                              Audit Data                            GSA
                                                                                                                                              Retrieval
                                                   Orders



                                                                               5.1 Services
                          PPSO                                                   Approval

                                                                                                                                                                   EDI
                                                                                                                                                                   858             FACTS
                                                                                                              2.5b Entry and
                                                                                                               Pre-Approval
                     2.1 Customer and      8. TSP Payment                                                       of Services                TGET
                       Shipment Data           Approval
                           Entry
                                                                                                                                            TGET         10.2 Feed to
                                                                                                                                          download          FACTS
                        Shipment                                                               6.3 Rating
                          Data                      0. Solicitation
                                                       Rate Data

                                                   Solicitation                                                                     6.1 DTOD
                                                                                                                                                                Mileage
                                                    Rate Data                          Personal Property                             Mileage
                                                                                                                                                  6.2 Rand       Data
                                                                                       Defense Personal                                            McNally
                                                                                                                                                   Mileage
                           DPS                                                         Property System
                                                     Shipment
                                                       Data                                Database
                                                                                                                                                                            DTOD
   Phone
    call                2.2 Electronic                                                                                     10.1 Payment
                        Customer and                                                                                         Data Feed
                        Shipment Data                                                               DP
                             Feed                                                                             EDI
                                                                2.4 Pre-Move                      4. EDI      858
                                                                   Survey                     Submission
                                                                                                                               EDI 810
 2.5a Pre-Approval                                                                              from PT
      Request                                                                                                  7. EDI
                              5.2 Status                                                                    Submission
                                Review                                                           EDI         from CWA
                                                                  Phone                          859                                                           Certifying
                                                                   call                                                                        Invoice
                                                                                                                                                                Officer
             2.3 BoL Access
                                                                                                                                                                                   11. Invoice
                                                                                                                                                                                   Certification

                                    3. Invoice          EDI 859/
                                   Submission /           web
                                   NOSC Entry
                                                                                                                                                                                    Certified
                                                       interface                                                                                                                     Invoice
                                                                                                  TPPS

                      Transportation                                             9. TSP                                             12. Bank                      DFAS
                     Service Provider                   EFT                     Payment                                             Payment                                            FVH-DTR-A-0015

                                                                                                                                                                                         LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                         Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                        Electronic

                                                     Figure A-A-2. Electronic Bill Payment Process
                       (1) 0.0 Solicitation Rate Data. Solicitation rate data is exported from DPS History into the
                           DPS.
                       (2) 1.0 Order/Authorization Issuance. The Orders Issuing Activity prepares the
                           order/authorization and that activity’s funds management office ensures that the proper



                                                                                                IV-A-A-4
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                4 February 2026
Personal Property


                  accounting data (e.g., LOA, TAC, and MDC) is entered on the Transfer Orders
                  Document (TOD). The order/authorization is given to the customer. The customer
                  provides the order/authorization to the PPSO.
             (3) 2.1 Customer and Shipment Data Entry. The customer presents the order/authorization
                 to the PPSO. The PPSO enters the shipment and accounting data into DPS. The BL is
                 normally printed by the TSP. If the PPSO prints the BL, the original must be provided
                 to the TSP. Customers have the option of self-counseling. If self-counseling is chosen,
                 the customer must enter the move data and establish their shipment in the DPS and
                 provide a copy of their order/authorization to the servicing PPSO.
             (4) 2.2 Electronic Customer and Shipment Data Feed. The DPS receives downloads from
                 the Transportation Global Edit Table-Revised (TGET-R) and converts appropriation
                 data to FA2 format for each BL received from the DPS.
             (5) 2.3 BL Access. The TSP and other authorized organizations (for example GSA) can
                 print BLs from the DPS via the Web.
             (6) 2.4 Pre-Move Survey. The TSP performs a pre-move survey and identifies accessorial
                 services requiring pre-approval (i.e., approved by PPSO before the TSP performs
                 services).
             (7) 2.5a Pre-Approval Request. The TSP/agent must request pre-approvals online via the
                 DPS.
             (8) 2.5b Entry and Pre-Approval of Services. The PPSO enters approval/disapproval within
                 three (3) GBDs for pre-approval services requested by the TSP/agent.
             (9) 3.0 Invoice Submission/NOSC Entry. After delivery to SIT or the residence, the TSP
                 submits an invoice for services provided to the TPPS, along with NOSC indicating the
                 transit status for LH and accessorial services. The invoice and NOSC can be submitted
                 either electronically in an EDI 859 or manually via the TPPS Web interface.
                  The TSP must provide the weight tickets, as well as other supporting documents as
                  required by each individual HQ (see note below), to the PPSO within seven (7) GBDs
                  after shipment pickup and maintain copies of all supporting documents for audit and
                  dispute purposes (see note below). Documents such as the annotated BL, inventory, and
                  customer-signed DD Form 619 are randomly requested for the PPSO review or must be
                  provided to the PPSO as required by Service policy, by either electronic or manual
                  means. If weight tickets and all supporting documents are not received by the PPSO in a
                  timely manner, the PPSO places affected line-haul service (LHS) items in a dispute
                  status.
                  NOTE: Air Force and Navy documentation requirements are as follows: (1) for
                  domestic shipments processed by an Air Force or Navy shipping office: weighted BL
                  (Gross/Tare/Net/Pro Gear weights), weight tickets, DD Form 619 (Figure A-A-3),
                  inventories, and third-party approval/invoices; and (2) for international shipments:
                  weighted BL (Gross/Tare/Net/Pro Gear weights), weight tickets, inventories, and third-
                  party approval/invoices. DD Form 619 and/or DD Form 619-1 will be furnished when
                  applicable.
             (10) 4.0 EDI 859 Submission from TPPS. TPPS sends the information from the invoice
                  needed for rating to DPS along with a unique TPPS assigned line-item identifier.
             (11) 5.1 Services Approval. Origin and destination PPSOs must approve or deny the
                  requested services (LH and accessorials) in the DPS. A denied status and note stating
                  why the line item was denied must be given if the PPSO does not agree with the item


                                                 IV-A-A-5
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                  4 February 2026
Personal Property


                  submitted for payment. The TSP and PPSO must resolve disagreements in the DPS,
                  where both origin and destination PPSOs have visibility of the line items submitted for
                  approval. Although invoice visibility is available to both the origin and destination
                  PPSOs in the DPS, the destination PPSO does not have visibility in the TPPS.
             (12) 5.2 Status Review. TSPs can review approval status of services via the DPS’ Web
                  interface. The TSP can adjust the quantity for the PPSO to review and approve only if
                  all line items have not been approved or denied.
             (13) 6.1 Defense Table of Distance (DTOD). The DPS transmits the From and To location
                  information to the DTOD for International Through Government Bill of Lading
                  shipments (ITGBL). The DTOD returns the number of miles between the two location
                  points.
                  (a) Rand McNally Mileage Guide: The Rand McNally Mileage Guide establishes a
                      uniform method of computing the shortest distance (in miles) between two points
                      for Through Government Bill of Lading (TGBL) shipments and motor carrier tariff
                      purposes. The Tariff 400NG uses the Rand McNally Mileage Guide for Base Point
                      Cities (BPC). The BPC is taken from the National three-digit zip directory.
             (14) 6.2 Rating. After services on the invoices are approved or denied, the DPS rates the line
                  items. For approved line items the DPS will rate the item and post a cost. For denied
                  line items, the DPS will not rate the item and assign a cost of zero.
             (15) 7.0 EDI 858 Submissions from the DPS. The DPS feeds an EDI 858 containing data for
                  rated LH and accessorial services, and denied services (with a quantity of zero and zero
                  dollars) to the TPPS.
             (16) 8.0 TSP Payment Approval. The TPPS compares the TSP cost data against the DPS cost
                  data using the Matching Model with multiple invoices per BL. The TPPS “matches”
                  data for each invoice at the line-item level. The shipper/DoD side of the transaction
                  establishes the maximum total dollar amount that can be paid to the TSP for an invoice.
                  If there are services submitted for each side, the shipper and TSP must match costs
                  within the predetermined tolerance on the line-item total. The TPPS flags invoices as an
                  “Audit Exception” if the line-item costs are not within tolerance. If all the invoice line-
                  item dollar amounts are equal (or within the tolerance) the invoice is automatically
                  approved for payment.
                  If an audit exception exists, the TSP must adjust their cost to match the DPS data. After
                  the cost has been updated and matched, the transaction automatically approves. A TSP
                  using EDI 859 for invoice submission has the option to resubmit a corrected EDI 859
                  with updated quantities and/or rates or use the Web interface to make adjustments. No
                  PPSO action is required in the TPPS for invoices in the Audit Exception status.
                  In those cases, in which the DPS provides an incorrect billing rate, the TSP must match
                  the incorrect rate. The TPPS processes the invoice and automatically approves the
                  payment. The TSP must submit a supplemental invoice for the difference between the
                  published rate solicitation and the incorrect DPS billing rate. When billing a
                  supplemental invoice, the TSP must annotate that the line item is a re-bill to correct an
                  incorrect billing rate. This notifies the PPSO that the line item is a re-bill of the
                  difference from a previously submitted invoice. The TSP Prompt Pay Interest (PPI)
                  requirements are defined in Paragraph C.
                  Matching to incorrect billing rates does not forfeit PPI as defined in Paragraph C. If a
                  supplemental invoice is submitted, the 30-day clock starts upon submission of the new


                                                  IV-A-A-6
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                     4 February 2026
Personal Property


                  invoice. USTRANSCOM monitors the items in Audit Exception and publishes metrics
                  identifying TSPs and the number of Audit Exception transactions on a specific date.
                  TPPS also ensures the total cost of the invoice is less than a predetermined maximum
                  price threshold. The purpose of this threshold is to flag shipments whose costs are at or
                  above the predetermined maximum price limit for further review prior to approval for
                  payment. Using historical data, the Services determine the maximum price threshold.
                  If the line-item costs are within the established tolerance and the total invoice cost is less
                  than the maximum established threshold, the TPPS automatically “Approves” payment
                  of the TSP invoice. If the total cost is above the maximum threshold, the TPPS flags the
                  invoice as being in “Approval Required” status. The PPSO then must manually approve
                  the invoice for payment on the TPPS. No TSP action is required in the TPPS for
                  invoices in Approval Required status. The PPSO has three (3) GBDs to approve
                  invoices in Approval Required status.
                  Examples of Auto Approval/Audit Exception under Line-Item Matching.
                  LH and Accessorial Line-Item Tolerance is +/- $10 (value is purely for example) and
                  Invoice Threshold is <= $1,500 (value is purely for example)
                  Example #1:
                          Government Cost                                     $1,290
                          LH                                                  $1,000
                          Accessorial A                                         $200
                          Accessorial B                                          $90
                          TSP Cost                                            $1,301
                          LH                                                  $1,000
                          Accessorial A                                         $205
                          Accessorial B                                          $96
                          Total cost                                        < $1,500
                          AND Cost difference on individual line items         < $10
                          TPPS approves for Payment
                  Example #2:
                          Government Cost                                     $1,290
                          LH                                                  $1,000
                          Accessorial A                                         $200
                          Accessorial B                                          $90
                          TSP Cost                                            $1,307
                          LH                                                  $1,000
                          Accessorial A                                         $211
                          Accessorial B                                          $96
                          Total cost                                        < $1,500
                          BUT Cost difference on Accessorial A                 > $10
                          TPPS places transaction in Audit Exception
             (17) 9. TSP Payment. As invoices are approved for payment, and a NOSC has been
                  submitted by the TSP, payment is made to the TSP.
             (18) 10.1 Payment Data Feed. TPPS feeds actual payment data on each line item to the DPS.




                                                   IV-A-A-7
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


             (19) 10.2 Feed to Financial and Air Clearance Transportation System (FACTS). The DPS
                  feeds the EDI 858 to the FACTS.
             (20) 11.0 Summary Invoice Certification. The CO must print, review, and certify the
                  Summary Invoice and then send the certified Summary Invoice to DFAS/FINCEN.
                  After the Automated Finance and Accounting Process is fully implemented, the certified
                  Summary Invoices must be submitted electronically to DFAS/FINCEN for further
                  processing and payment.
             (21) 12.0 Payment. DFAS/FINCEN pays the bank the certified Summary Invoice amount.
             (22) 13.0 Post-Payment Audit Data Retrieval. The GSA conducts post-payment audits using
                  invoice data from the TPPS and data on authorized services and weights from the DPS.
                  The GSA reserves the right to request hard-copy supporting documentation from the
                  TSP to conduct post-payment audits.
    4. Business Rules for Implementation:
        a. General:
             (1) The TPPS business process model is the Line Item Matching Model.
             (2) Matching Model with Multiple Invoices per BL: Both shipper and the TSP submit
                 shipment price data to the TPPS. The shipper’s transaction data is submitted via
                 multiple EDI 858 transaction sets from the DPS. The TSP may submit their invoices via
                 EDI 859s or manual submission through the TPPS Web interface. The TPPS assigns a
                 unique line item identifier to each line item in the TSP invoice and sends the amended
                 EDI 859 invoice to the DPS for approval and rating. The rated shipper side of the
                 transaction, sent back to the TPPS via EDI 858, establishes the maximum line item
                 dollar amounts that can be paid to a TSP for each invoice. The total dollar amount paid
                 for each BL increases with each additional invoice submitted and paid.
             (3) While payment in the TPPS is at the invoice level, matching occurs at the line item level.
                 For each invoice, the TPPS compares each line item and dollar amount against the line
                 item and dollar amount on the shipper’s invoice for that BL. If the line item cannot find
                 a corresponding match or the dollar amounts for matched line items are not equal (or
                 within tolerance), the invoice goes into Audit Exception status. If all line items and
                 costs match on an invoice, the invoice is automatically approved for payment. If the
                 invoice amount is above a preset threshold, the transaction goes in Approval Required
                 status. To facilitate payment for transactions in Approval Required status, the PPSO
                 must manually approve Approval Required status invoices in the TPPS.
        b. Key Process Business Rules:
             (1) Order/Authorization Issuance (1.0):
                  The order/authorization issuing process remains unchanged. The orders issuing activity
                  (e.g., personnel office) prepares the TOD. The order/authorization issuing activity
                  determines the correct appropriation data (e.g., LOA, TAC, MDC) to assign to the
                  order/authorization. If necessary, the orders/authorization issuing activity confers with
                  the FM to ensure that the correct data is entered onto the TOD. The TOD is provided to
                  the customer, who must provide it to the PPSO.
             (2) Customer and Shipment Data Entry (2.1):
                  (a) As part of the process of counseling the customer on entitlement and shipping
                      options, the PPSO must enter the customer data into the DPS for all shipments



                                                  IV-A-A-8
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                4 February 2026
Personal Property


                       processed by the DPS. The PPSO also enters the accounting information from the
                       customer’s order/authorization (the exact data varies by Service).
                  (b) The weight ticket information must be entered into the DPS by the TSP. The TSP
                      must provide the weight ticket to the PPSO within seven (7) government business
                      days after shipment pickup. If the weight ticket is not received, the PPSO must
                      dispute the invoice in the DPS. If the TSP continues to be non-compliant with the
                      weight ticket submittal, the PPSO must follow procedures as set forth in the Quality
                      Assurance Business Rules for administrative actions against the TSP.
                  (c) The PPSO must enter the origin PPSO and destination PPSO Bill of Lading Office
                      Code (BLOC) for the shipment. The BLOC is used to identify the site in the DPS.
                      If the wrong identifier is used, the wrong PPSOs are assigned shipment view in the
                      DPS.
                  (d) When notified of a diversion, the origin PPSO must change the final destination
                      location in the DPS in order for the correct destination PPSO to be associated with
                      the destination services. The origin location must manage the approvals in the
                      DPS, in conjunction with verbal communication to the diverted destination.
                  (e) The “Bill To:” field on the BL must contain the DoD-designated TPPS bank or
                      authorized paying office.
                  (f) Includes Codes D, 2-8, T, and J shipments. With Code 5, T, and J shipments, the
                      portion transported by the TSP is paid by the TPPS, while the portion transported
                      by the Air Mobility Command/Military Sealift Command is paid via Transportation
                      Control Movement Document.
                  (g) Any shipment that moves on a BL with the exception of:
                       1   Non-Temporary Storage.
                       2   Shipments moved under contracts (e.g., delivery out of SIT after conversion to
                           customer expense).
                       3   DPM.
                       4   Personally Procured Moves.
                       5   Shipments moved under POV contracts.
                  (h) If a one-time-only (OTO) rate tender is required, USTRANSCOM must solicit for
                      Single Factor Rate (SFR) tenders from TSPs. USTRANSCOM will approve the
                      TSP and their SFR and the PPSO will award the shipment. The USTRANSCOM-
                      approved SFR rate is passed to the DPS for rating purposes.
             (3) Electronic Customer and Shipment Data Feed (2.2):
                  (a) The TSP normally prints the BL after completing the pre-move survey and updating
                      the DPS. In the event the PPSO must print the BL document prior to the TSP
                      printing it, the original must be provided to the TSP. The printing of the BL
                      triggers the feed of data to the DPS and the TPPS.
                  (b) TGET-R downloads the appropriation data to the DPS daily and converts
                      appropriation data to FA2 LOAs.
                  (c) A conversion failure report is available on-demand identifying transactions which
                      are missing segments in the LOA and with an indication by transaction whether the
                      EDI 859 has been received.



                                                 IV-A-A-9
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                4 February 2026
Personal Property


             (4) BL Access (2.3):
                  After the data is in the DPS, the TSP can print additional copies of the BL from the DPS
                  using a Web interface. Other authorized organizations with read-only access to the DPS
                  can print copies of the PPGB data (e.g., GSA, DFAS/FINCEN). TSPs and other
                  authorized organizations with read-only access can download the BL from DPS onto
                  their system as a PDF file. The PDF file can be saved and use as an attachment on an
                  electronic mail (e-mail). However, DPS does not have the functionality to e-mail the
                  BL.
             (5) Pre-Move Survey (2.4):
                  The TSP must contact the customer to complete the Pre-Move Survey and identify
                  accessorial services requiring PPSO pre-approval.
             (6) Pre-Approval Request (2.5a):
                  Requested and approved online via DPS.
             (7) Entry and Pre-Approval of Services (2.5b):
                  The TSP must enter the services requiring pre-approval into the DPS Pre-Approval
                  screen at the time of the Pre-Approval Request. The PPSO must enter both the approved
                  and denied services for reference.
             (8) Invoice Submission/NOSC Entry (3.0):
                  (a) After a shipment has been picked up and delivered to the origin/destination SIT or
                      actual destination, the TSP must submit an invoice for the services performed to
                      obtain payment through TPPS.
                  (b) There are no requirements for the PPSO to sign the DD Form 619 (see Figure A-A-
                      3). Customer signatures are required on the DD Form 619/619-1.




                                                 IV-A-A-10
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                       4 February 2026
Personal Property




              Figure A-A-3. DD Form 619, Statement of Accessorial Services Performed


                                              IV-A-A-11
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                  4 February 2026
Personal Property


                  (c) The TSP must submit shipment transit status (i.e., delivered to SIT, delivered to
                      Destination) and rated invoice data to TPPS via an EDI 859 transaction set
                      (preferred), or via the TPPS Web interface.
                  (d) The invoice must contain the unique BL for that shipment and the TSP assigned
                      invoice number. The services on the invoice may include LH and/or accessorial
                      services including SIT data and surcharges (such as fuel and bunker surcharges).
                  (e) The TSP must report NOSC of the shipment to TPPS before payment can be made.
                  (f) Each service line item must indicate whether it is an origin or destination service.
                      This is used to help DPS identify the PPSO with approval/denial authority.
                  (g) All documentation must be maintained by the TSP for 6 years, so copies (or
                      originals if requested) can be provided to GSA or to the PPSO IAW Service policy.
                      GSA reserves the right to request documentation directly from the TSP at any given
                      time.
                  (h) When an item is billed solely or partially by weight, the TSP must submit to TPPS
                      (either via the Web interface or the EDI 859) the billed weight, as well as the actual
                      net weight (for household goods shipments) or the actual gross weight for baggage
                      shipments.
                  (i)   For TSPs using an EDI 859 transaction set to invoice into TPPS, receipt and error
                        notification must be in the form of an EDI 997 for acknowledging receipt and/or
                        rejection for syntax errors. An EDI 824 report on the TPPS website identifies
                        errors from DPS besides syntax.
                  (j)   TSPs have the choice of submitting more than one invoice against a single BL;
                        however, LH service can be billed once. Additional and/or supplemental LH
                        (LHSADD) charges must be billed using a different line item (LHSADD). Each
                        invoice must reference the BL number and have a unique invoice number.
             (9) EDI 859 Submission from TPPS (4.0):
                  TPPS assigns a unique identifier known as the LineIDC for each line item submitted on
                  the TSP’s invoice and creates an EDI 859 to be sent to DPS. If the TSP submitted an
                  EDI 859 to TPPS, TPPS inserts a LineIDC into the EDI 859. This same identifier is
                  used by DPS. This identifier is critical in the line item matching process and allows for
                  the same item codes with different quantities (such as third-party services, TSPs) to
                  match and pay successfully on an invoice.
             (10) Services Approval (5.0):
                  (a) The origin PPSO of record and destination PPSO(s) of record (from DPS) both
                      have access to the shipment data in DPS.
                  (b) With the exception of some services which are automatically approved (e.g., bunker
                      surcharges, fuel surcharges) whenever a service line item is created in DPS, it is
                      assigned an approval status of Pending.
                        NOTE: Origin approved services are not automatically approved for destination.
                        Example: long carry may be required at origin but not necessary at destination.
                  (c) When a PPSO logs on to DPS the PPSO is able to view a list of all shipments for
                      which the PPSO is either an origin or destination PPSO, and for which there is at
                      least one service line item with an approval status of Pending. The PPSO may view
                      the list of services that have been submitted by the TSP. The PPSO can filter the


                                                  IV-A-A-12
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


                       view by status to show only Approved, Denied, In Dispute, Updated, or Pending
                       service line items. The PPSO must input notes in DPS whenever a line item is
                       denied with a reason explaining the denial and when a line item is disputed with the
                       reason for the dispute. The PPSO must request additional information for line item
                       charges in dispute status. As part of the notes, the PPSO must indicate the
                       information is needed in seven (7) calendar days or the charge will be denied.
                  (d) The PPSO has three (3) GBDs in which to assign a status of Approved, In Dispute,
                      or Denied to items within an invoice. PPSOs are defined as either
                      origin/destination based on shipment origination and final destination.
                  (e) A random sample of the invoices is subject to documentation request for PPSO
                      review before approval of the invoice can take place. (See sampling methodology
                      and rules in Paragraph (11) below.)
             (11) Personal Property Statistical Sampling Methodology for Documentation Review:
                  (a) General
                        1   EDI invoices from TSPs are sent via the authorized payment system TPPS to
                            DPS. The invoices in DPS are approved or denied by the TO/PPSO rated in
                            DPS and sent via EDI 858 to TPPS for payment to the TSP. GSA has certified
                            the internal controls of DPS meet prepayment audit requirements. An overall
                            guideline for the administrative examination of disbursement vouchers is set
                            forth at http://comptroller.defense.gov/fmr.
                        2   Until the customer’s signature is captured electronically for personal property,
                            statistical sampling of supporting documentation is conducted prior to payment
                            of invoices. The following documentation outlines the procedure for statistical
                            sampling. This methodology is developed for pre-payment examination and is
                            similarly based on the Office of the Secretary of Defense Comptroller and GSA
                            approved CO sampling verification for certifying the summary invoice
                            referenced in the Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation
                            (DoDFMR) 7000.14R, Volume 5, Chapter 5, Accountable Officials and
                            Certifying Officers for post payment examination. It has been modified for
                            Transportation Officer (TO)/PPSO daily pre-payment invoice approval process
                            in DPS.
                            NOTE: For invoices under $2,500, a statistical sampling of supporting
                            documentation is conducted prior to the certifying of invoices. Invoices
                            exceeding $2500 must be verified separately. To calculate the dollar amount of
                            the invoice, only utilize the line items on the invoice your Government BL
                            Office Code (GBLOC) is responsible to Approve or Deny in calculating the
                            invoice amount.
                        3   The TO must review DPS invoices identified in these procedures for pre-TSP
                            payment statistical sampling and verify the accuracy of the invoice. The
                            sampled invoices must be exact or the TO must deny (the service billed was
                            not performed) or dispute (the quantities billed are inaccurate and must be
                            changed by the TSP) the items on the invoice for payment. The TO is not
                            required to review invoices not specified in these rules, but must review any
                            known discrepancies or erroneous invoices to ensure whether or not payment is
                            appropriate to safeguard DoD funds.




                                                  IV-A-A-13
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                        4 February 2026
Personal Property


                        4   The results of the sampled invoices also provide management officials with
                            trends regarding the types and frequency of discrepancies found on these
                            invoices.
                            NOTE: Sampling is a manual process.
                  (b) Preparing to Select Transactions for Pre-Payment Review
                        Before selecting the sample, an estimate must be developed from past data
                        regarding the number of DPS invoices expected to be processed for the current
                        month. The purpose of this estimate is to determine the sample size and sample
                        selection criteria. All DPS invoices are subject to review through this random
                        selection process, regardless of category or dollar value.
                  (c) Statistical Sampling Plan for Pre-Payment Review
                       1    A systematic method must be used to select the DPS invoices for review.
                            Table A-A-1 provides the approximate sample size based on the estimated total
                            number of invoices for the given month. For example, using Table A-A-1, if
                            the TO estimates that approximately 50 DPS invoices will be processed for the
                            day, the sample size is approximately five and the sampling interval would be
                            11. Next a random start number from 1 to 11 would be selected, for example,
                            three). Starting with the 3rd invoice, every 11th invoice would be selected
                            (e.g., 3, 14, 25) until the entire population has been exhausted and the total
                            sample achieved. The actual sample size may vary from the estimate. After a
                            sampling interval is selected, do not change the size of the sampling interval.
                            At the start of a new month, a different sampling interval may be used based on
                            revisions to the estimated summary population sizes.
                       2    Until DPS is programmed to statistically sample invoices for documentation
                            review, the manual process to randomly sample the invoices pending approval
                            in DPS must be followed, as documented below.
                       Table A-A-1. Sample Chart (Targeted Sample Size = 100)
                  Daily Estimated DPS                                        Summary Est. Sample
                                              Est. Sampling    Est. Sample
                  Invoices Pending TO                                          Size (Based on 20
                                                 Interval          Size
                        Approval                                                     GBDs)
                            5                      2                3                  50
                           10                      3                3                  67
                           15                      4                4                  75
                           20                      5                4                  80
                           25                      6                4                  83
                           30                      7                4                  86
                           35                      8                4                  88
                           40                      9                4                  89
                           45                      10               5                  90
                           50                      11               5                  91
                           55                      12               5                  92
                           60                      13               5                  92
                           65                      14               5                  93
                           70                      15               5                  93
                           75                      16               5                  94
                           80                      17               5                  94
                           90                      18               5                 100
                           95                      19               5                 100




                                                        IV-A-A-14
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                       4 February 2026
Personal Property


                        3   The PPSO/TO must maintain a checklist (Table A-A-2) of BL/invoice numbers
                            that have been reviewed for documentation. If multiple invoices occur for a
                            given BL, previously sampled invoices must not be included for additional
                            documentation requests to the TSPs. The documentation for previously
                            sampled invoices must remain on file at the PPSO for additional review.
                                 Table A-A-2. Sampled Invoice Checklist
                                               DPS PPSO Checklist
                               Sampled Invoices for Documentation Review DD-MM-YY
                                         Standard
                 BL         Invoice                     Documentation    Notes for
                                      Carrier Alpha                                  Action Taken
               Number       Number                        Requested       Review
                                           Code
                                                       e.g., 619,                    e.g., Approved
                                                       inventory                     items in DPS


                  (d) TSPs with Web access to all their documentation are posted on DPS invoice in the
                      TSP header notes. The PPSO must click on the TSP header notes, copy and paste
                      the URL for webpage access to see all pertinent documentation.
                  (e) The PPSO must review the line items in DPS with a status of Pending and assign
                      one of the following approval statuses based on the following criteria:
                        1   Approve: PPSO agrees that the services were requested and performed, and
                            they agree with the quantities.
                        2   Deny: PPSO disagrees that the services were requested and performed. The
                            PPSO must enter a reason in the Notes field for denied line items.
                        3   Dispute: PPSO agrees that the services were requested and performed, but
                            disagrees with the quantities, or the PPSO requires additional information or
                            documentation from the TSP before approving the line item. The PPSO must
                            enter a reason in the Notes field for disputed line items.
                  (f) TSPs have access to a downloadable report listing the status of all services
                      submitted to DPS. The status reflects all services approved, denied, in dispute, or
                      pending action.
                  (g) TSPs have access to view the status of line items via the DPS Web interface. If an
                      item is In Dispute, the TSP can adjust their quantities. If the quantity is changed,
                      the status changes from In Dispute to Updated. TSPs cannot modify the quantity of
                      service items that have been approved or denied.
                  (h) If it is determined that the TSP is entitled to payment of a Denied item before the
                      invoice is rated and sent to the TPPS, the PPSO can change the status to Approved.
                      If the invoice has already been rated and locked from further changes, the TSP may
                      include that item on a supplemental invoice through TPPS.
                  (i)   All Disputes must be resolved in DPS since the destination PPSO does not have
                        visibility or approval authority in TPPS.
                  (j)   PPSOs must not change the quantities or rates in TPPS unless it is determined that
                        DPS incorrectly rated a line item. TSPs must use supplemental invoices for any
                        disputed claim not resolved in DPS.
                  (k) The use of eBills should be minimal (except as noted). TSPs must submit
                      supplemental invoices for additional items not paid on the original invoice. This
                      allows the destination PPSO to have visibility and approval authority of the charges
                      in DPS.


                                                   IV-A-A-15
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                   4 February 2026
Personal Property


                  (l)   TSPs who owe the Government a refund, must submit a negative supplemental
                        invoice through TPPS for repayment of government overcharges. TSPs must
                        comply with the procedures outlining this process in the Offsets and Funds
                        Recovery business rules found on the USTRANSCOM website at
                        https://www.ustranscom.mil/dp3/index.cfm.
                  (m) PPSOs must approve, dispute or deny transactions identified as “services awaiting
                      approval” within three (3) GBDs. An aging report is available for the Services to
                      determine the average number of days for “services awaiting approval” by PPSOs.
                  (n) If a reweigh occurs and the weight is lower than the original weight ticket, the new
                      lower weight must be entered in DPS. If the TSP invoice is already received (but
                      not approved) in DPS, DPS recalculates all the cost associated with weight. If the
                      invoice is already approved, the TSP must bill a supplemental invoice using the
                      LHSADD line item.
                  (o) TSP may bill for the reweigh fee at any point after the reweigh, the PPSO must
                      determine if the TSP is entitled to the fee.
             (12) DTOD Distance (6.1):
                  (a) For ITGBL service line items which require the number of miles (e.g., LH,
                      Delivery out of SIT), DPS transmits the location information associated with the
                      “From” and “To” locations to DTOD, and DTOD returns the number of miles
                      between the two locations for reference purposes.
                  (b) If a PPSO disagrees with the origin or destination location submitted by a TSP, the
                      PPSO must mark the line item as Denied.
                  (c) If the PPSO disagrees with the distance submitted by the TSP, it is marked as In
                      Dispute with Notes and must stay in that status until the TSP updates the distance.
             (13) Rand McNally Mileage (6.2):
                  (a) For TGBL service line items that require the number of miles (e.g., LH and delivery
                      out of SIT), DPS transmits the location information associated with the “From” and
                      “To” locations to DPS and DPS returns the number of miles between the two
                      locations for reference purposes using the Rand McNally mileage reference tables.
                  (b) If a PPSO disagrees with the origin or destination location submitted by a TSP, the
                      PPSO must mark the line item as Denied.
                  (c) If the PPSO disagrees with the distance submitted by the TSP, it is marked as In
                      Dispute with Notes and must stay in that status until the TSP updates the distance.
             (14) Rating (6.2):
                  (a) After the PPSO has marked all items on an invoice as Approved or Denied, DPS
                      rates the invoice. Denied line items are assigned a quantity of zero and a cost of
                      zero. Both approved and denied line items are sent in the EDI 858 to TPPS. DPS
                      uses the quantities and location information associated with each service line item
                      to calculate the correct cost of each service line item IAW the rates on file for the
                      TSP.
                  (b) If a line item is approved by the PPSO, and the DPS determines it cannot be rated:
                        1   DPS assigns a status of Denied and a quantity and cost of zero.
                        2   DPS adds text to the notes field indicating it was denied for lack of information.



                                                   IV-A-A-16
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


             (15) EDI 858 Submission from DPS (7.0):
                  (a) DPS feeds an EDI 858 containing data for rated (approved and denied) line items to
                      TPPS. The EDI 858 must reference the BL number as the key field along with the
                      Line IDC, and the invoice number sent in the EDI 859 from TPPS.
                  (b) The initial EDI 858 sent from DPS for a given BL must be sent as an original EDI
                      858. As new services are approved and rated, subsequent EDI 858s are sent as
                      incremental update EDI 858s. If a diversion or reweigh occurs, the EDI 858 is
                      flagged so the header level information such as addresses and weights can be
                      updated.
             (16) TSP Payment Approval (8.0):
                  (a) Payment Requirements:
                       1   At the PPSO’s discretion, PPSOs can assign each individual TPPS user within
                           an office a different maximum dollar amount for TSP payment approval. If the
                           BL price on a shipment exceeds a user's maximum, the user cannot approve the
                           TSP payment.
                       2   The TSP payment process begins with the receipt of the NOSC and the shipper
                           and TSP portions of the transaction are matched by the unique BL, Standard
                           Carrier Alpha Code (SCAC) and Invoice Number combination. Actual TSP
                           payment is based on the services provided under the BL. PPSOs must not
                           approve invoices in TPPS in a status other than Approval Required.
                  (b) Automatic Approval of Payment:
                       1   For automatic approval of payment: Invoice and data submitted must match or
                           be within preset tolerances. After the rated shipper’s invoice is received in
                           TPPS, it is the TSP’s responsibility to update quantities or costs in TPPS to
                           match the data submitted from DPS.
                       2   If the quantity of an item was changed or denied in DPS, the TSP must edit
                           their invoice in TPPS or the transaction is placed in Audit Exception status.
                           For denied line items, TSPs must change that item cost and quantity to zero for
                           it to match in TPPS. After the items and costs match, the invoice is
                           automatically approved if the total cost falls below the predetermined
                           maximum threshold.
                       3   USTRANSCOM, with Service approval, establishes the DoD’s policy for
                           automated TSP payment approval using TPPS matching model. This policy is
                           coded into the DoD Business Rule Set within TPPS and all organizations must
                           use this Business Rule Set as the basis for processing transactions.
                       4   Paragraph C addresses prompt payment scenarios and business rules.
                      NOTE: In the manual environment (without automation outlined in the Prompt Pay
                      Procedures in Paragraph C), USTRANSCOM creates eBills in TPPS for those
                      payments that have aged beyond 30 days as a result of Government system or user.
                      PPSO’s must approve all eBills.
             (17) Manual Approval of Payment:
                  (a) The origin PPSO must approve for payment the amount they determine the
                      Government is responsible to pay. The origin PPSO must work with the destination




                                                 IV-A-A-17
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                  4 February 2026
Personal Property


                       PPSO to correctly approve invoices for payment since only the origin PPSO has
                       access to the transactions in TPPS.
                  (b) Origin PPSOs must log on each workday to TPPS to review transactions that have a
                      Financial Status of:
                       1   Audit Exception – No PPSO action is required in TPPS for invoices in the
                           Audit Exception status. Stakeholders must alert USTRANSCOM of any rating
                           errors and be aware of the TSP’s responsibilities as outlined in Paragraph B.2.e.
                       2   Approval Required – The maximum threshold is below the total cost of the
                           invoice and manual approval is required by the PPSO.
                       3   Hold – The PPSO has placed an invoice on hold requesting further information
                           on the charges.
                  (c) For transactions in a status of Approval Required, the PPSO must take one of the
                      following actions within three (3) GBDs after notification of service completion:
                       1   Approve the payment.
                       2   Place on hold and request additional information from the TSP, using the Notes
                           Section of the transaction.
                       3   Deny payment and record reason in the Notes section of the transaction.
                  (d) After a response is received on a hold, the origin PPSO that placed the hold has
                      three (3) GBDs to approve or deny.
                  (e) If an invoice matches on cost but is above the predetermined threshold the invoice
                      is in a status of Approval Required. The origin PPSO must manually approve these
                      transactions within three (3) GBDs. The PPSO must check for invoices in this
                      status each workday.
             (18) TSP Payment (9.0):
                  (a) The TSP cannot be paid until NOSC and PPSO approval (either automatic or
                      manual) are received. The TSP is paid after the PPSO approves the invoice for
                      payment, removes an invoice from hold status, or resolves an eBill.
                  (b) The TSP is paid by submitting an EDI 820 remittance to the TSP system and an
                      Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) to the TSP bank.
             (19) Payment Data Feed (10.1):
                  (a) TPPS feeds payment data to DPS using an EDI 810 transaction set. This data is
                      sent summary at the time of the summary invoice generation due to the ability to
                      change LOAs in TPPS until summary invoice generation. TPPS also transmits the
                      financial EDI 810 data feed to DFAS Expenditure Systems for all payments made.
                  (b) The EDI 810 lists the all line items and the corresponding dollar amounts for each
                      invoice. It also includes the LOA/TAC/MDC and obligation data assigned to each
                      service line item.
             (20) Feed to FACTS (10.2):
                  DPS feeds the EDI 858 to FACTS.




                                                  IV-A-A-18
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      4 February 2026
Personal Property


             (21) Summary Invoice Certification (11.0):
                      (a) Procedures for the Prompt Payment Act (PPA) and the responsibilities for COs,
                          accountable officials, and review officials are contained in DoDFMR, Volume 5,
                          Chapter 5, Accountable Officials and Certifying Officers. Under the terms of the
                          TPPS contract, PPA interest begins to accrue 30 days from the summary invoice
                          availability date. The summary invoice and supporting documentation (detailed
                          summary invoice and customer’s orders) must be certified and arrive at the
                          DFAS/FINCEN payment center by five (5) GBDs following receipt of the summary
                          invoice. This is to ensure the payment center has sufficient time to disburse the
                          amount owed to the bank. DFAS/FINCEN payment centers (for addresses go to
                          www.dfas.mil or https://www.uscg.mil/fincen/) are as follows:
                                  Table A-A-3. DFAS Financial Payment Centers
                        Service               Payment Center        Phone Number        Fax Number
          Army                            DFAS-Indianapolis          317-212-2464       317-212-2397
                                                                                       207-328-1699 or
          Air Force                       DFAS-Limestone             207-328-1605        207-328-1873
                                                                                        (w/cover page)
          Navy                            DFAS-Indianapolis          317-212-7814       317-212-3965
          Marine Corps                    DFAS-Columbus              614-693-0953       866-217-6523
          Coast Guard
                                          DFAS-Indianapolis          317-212-2464       317-212-2397
          (for non-Coast Guard shipments)
          Coast Guard
                                          FINCEN                     757-523-6022
          (for Coast Guard Shipments)


                      (b) The Certifying Official (CO) must print the summary invoice after the 15th of the
                          month (the next business day, if the 15th falls on a weekend) or when TPPS
                          generates the summary invoice on the TPPS website, whichever occurs later.
                      (c) The summary invoice must be reviewed and certified by the CO prior to pre-
                          validation of available funds by the DFAS/FINCEN payment office. (The “in-
                          progress” summary invoice is available for review by the CO throughout the
                          month). The overall scope of the review is to ensure that the invoice contains the
                          necessary substantiation and documentation for lawful and proper payment. The
                          CO business rules for summary invoice certification are outlined in Paragraph C.
                          These rules must be strictly adhered as per the DoDFMR.
                      (d) The LOA summarizes transportation charges on the summary invoice. Supporting
                          line item detail is available for review in TPPS. The Expense Distribution Monitor
                          Report or a similar report providing shipment level detail, including but not limited
                          to the SDN and obligation data must be printed for use in the certification process
                          and for submission to DFAS/FINCEN. If the LOA contains the obligation data, it
                          is summarized on the summary invoice for the DFAS/FINCEN use in obligating
                          funds.
                          The DFAS/FINCEN accounting systems require obligation data to identify a
                          transaction for processing within the system. If the obligation data is not present on
                          the incoming certified billing for a specific line item transaction, the
                          DFAS/FINCEN paying office must contact the supporting FM or the CO for valid
                          obligation data. Upon receipt of missing obligation data, the DFAS/FINCEN
                          paying office releases funds for that line item transaction.




                                                      IV-A-A-19
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


                  (e) If the LOA is missing, TPPS assigns “xx” in the LOA field. This field remains
                      open for editing from the BLs receipt from DPS until summary invoice generation.
                      The CO must research instances of missing or inaccurate LOAs throughout the
                      summary invoice cycle period using the Expense Distribution Monitor Report or
                      the summary invoice, correcting the LOA for the respective TSP invoices. After
                      the TSP payment has been processed, accounting data cannot be electronically
                      edited.
                  (f) After the summary invoice is certified in TPPS, the LOA fields are locked from
                      further edits. The CO can manually correct LOAs on the summary invoice hard
                      copy before sending the certified copy to DFAS/FINCEN.
                  (g) The CO must review the summary invoice to ensure it reflects the actual TSP
                      payments and existing LOAs and Obligation data. The CO must accomplish the
                      pre-payment review of the summary invoice by validating the shipments from the
                      summary invoice against details showing shipment level detail verifying the
                      payment amounts are the same as those on the associated payment settled requests
                      in the TPPS database. Any discrepancies must be immediately provided to the
                      TPPS Help Desk. The CO must correct any LOA or obligation data errors
                      discovered on the summary invoice and/or Expense Distribution Monitor Report
                      and forward to DFAS/FINCEN within five (5) GBDs of the summary invoice
                      availability date.
                        1   Prior to certification of the summary invoice, the CO must review LOAs and
                            obligation data for accuracy.
                        2   If the summary invoice is missing or contains the incorrect shipper’s
                            appropriation (LOA/Obligation data), the CO must contact the issuing order
                            authority to resolve the discrepancy in TPPS. An entry in the Notes component
                            of TPPS must document the actions taken to establish the correct appropriation.
                  (h) Payment from the government to the bank is required in 30 days or less (“net 30
                      days”) from the date the summary invoice is first available (the “Availability Date”
                      field in TPPS). The bank invoice must be certified and arrive at the
                      DFAS/FINCEN payment center by the 5th GBD following availability of the
                      summary invoice. This is to ensure the payment center has sufficient time to
                      disburse the amount owed to the bank.
                  (i)   The Army Corps of Engineers (ACOE) and the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) each
                        have a separate summary invoice generated for their shipments regardless of the
                        origin account holder in TPPS. For example, if a USCG customer moves out of
                        Fort Belvoir, Fort Belvoir PPSO manages the invoices for payment. After the
                        summary invoice is generated, Fort Belvoir’s summary invoice does not include
                        that USCG transaction as it must be separated into a USCG invoice. The ACOE
                        and USCG have their own payment centers to pay directly to the TPPS.
                  (j)   For USCG installations:
                        1   All non-USCG shipments must be generated on a separate summary invoice in
                            TPPS that must be certified by the USCG CO and sent to the DFAS.
                            NOTE: This process assumes the correct TAC was entered into DPS and/or
                            TPPS.
                        2   If a USCG move does appear on a summary invoice, the CO must manually
                            enter the TAC for the noted transaction and forward the complete summary



                                                  IV-A-A-20
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                                       4 February 2026
Personal Property


                                invoice (including the USCG move) to the payment center. DFAS then
                                processes the summary invoice, and recoups the funds as necessary via an intra-
                                governmental funds transfer with the USCG Finance Center. The DFAS
                                payment center also requires the PPSO to submit orders for these moves.
                    (k) Since the USCG is not a DoD organization, the USCG and the Services have
                        entered into a reciprocal Memorandum of Agreement concerning their PPSOs’
                        approval of payments to the TSPs. Each origin PPSO resolves discrepancies
                        between the BL data and invoice data and approves payment to the TSP on behalf
                        of both the USCG and the Services without regard to whether customer is a USCG
                        or DoD customer.
                    (l) The CO signs the summary invoice to certify it is correct and proper for payment.
                        This must be accomplished within five (5) GBDs from the summary invoice
                        availability. Certification means that the summary invoice accurately reflects actual
                        payments made to TSPs in comparison to the Transaction Manager or Expense
                        Distribution Monitor Report. The initial pre-TSP-payment approval process
                        certified each payment transaction as being true and correct. The signed summary
                        invoice and the detailed invoice with the customer’s orders are sent by facsimile
                        (fax) (preferred) or overnight mail (by traceable means) to the DFAS/FINCEN
                        payment center for that CO. The certified summary invoice and Expense
                        Distribution Monitor Report (or similar detail report) must arrive at the
                        DFAS/FINCEN payment center by five (5) GBDs from the summary invoice
                        availability date.
                          NOTE: An additional requirement for Navy summary invoice certification is the
                          Prompt Payment Certification and Deduction Form (PPCD). The PPCD is
                          completed and signed by the CO and is submitted each month to DFAS-
                          Indianapolis along with the manually submitted summary invoice. The PPCD is
                          used to identify/clarify payment related information, adjustments, and/or deductions
                          (including TAC/LOAs not provided on the summary invoice) to ensure payments
                          are timely and accurate.
                           1. The following certification invoice must appear on the face of the summary
                              invoice along with signature of the authorized certifying officer:
                                “Pursuant to authority vested in me, I certify this billing invoice is correct and proper for
                                payment, except as may be noted herein or on supporting documents.”
                                                                                 ________________________________
                                                                                 John Doe
                                                                                 Authorized Certifying Officer

               Table A-A-4. Summary Business Rules for Summary Invoice Certification
                    Condition                                                       Rule
     CO prints summary invoice delivered via CO stamps PPA effective date on summary invoice. Under the terms of the
     the TPPS desktop.                       TPPS contract, PPA interest begins to accrue 30 days from the summary
                                             invoice availability date.
     Summary invoice not available or CO        CO contacts TPPS Help Desk. If the summary invoice “availability date”
     encounters problems printing summary       shown on the TPPS invoice differs from the actual availability date (due to
     invoice.                                   TPPS errors) the CO must note the actual Available Date on the invoice
                                                before submitting to the DFAS/FINCEN payment center.
     CO performs pre-payment invoice            Review summary invoice Shipment Detail Listing and verify that the payment
     review to ensure invoice reflects actual   amounts are the same as those on the associated PAYMENT SETTLED
     TSP payments.                              requests in TPPS.
     CO reviews summary invoice By              Use TPPS to drill down to transactions for invalid LOAs and use information
     Accounting Code section of summary         to contact the PPSO and/or shipment requestor and correct LOA entries. CO
     invoice to identify any invalid LOAs.      has five (5) GBDs to correct the LOAs.




                                                            IV-A-A-21
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                                    4 February 2026
Personal Property


                    Condition                                                      Rule
     CO determines the summary invoice to      CO certifies and signs summary invoice and submits it to proper
     be correct and proper.                    DFAS/FINCEN payment center for their Service by fax or express mail (i.e.,
                                               traceable means).
     PPSO or CO discovers overpayment.         PPSO or CO effects price adjustment by requesting TSP submit credit
                                               invoice or as a last resort create eBill refund in TPPS.


              (22) Bank Payment (12.0):
                    (a) The summary invoice charges must be summarized by LOA. Supporting detail is
                        available in the download details of summary invoice in TPPS.
                    (b) If the LOA fails the edit because of the obligation is not established,
                        DFAS/FINCEN contacts the FM to obtain permission to record the obligation.
                        After the obligation is recorded the in accounting system, DFAS/FINCEN
                        processes the payment against the obligation.
                    (c) In instances where incorrect TSP billing or overcharges exist, adjustments must be
                        credited/debited to the detail LOA as defined in the business rules covering Offsets
                        and Funds Recovery. This offset is reflective for that month’s invoice.
                          Table A-A-5. Summary Business Rules for Bank Payment
                    Condition                                                          Rule
 LOA fails edit in the entitlement system because   DFAS/FINCEN contacts the FM for authority to increase the obligation prior
 of insufficient obligation.                        to payment.
 LOA fails edit in the entitlement system because   DFAS/FINCEN contacts the FM to identify the appropriate accounting data,
 of no obligation.                                  record the obligation and process the payment to TPPS.
 LOA fails edit in the entitlement system because   DFAS/FINCEN contacts the FM to identify the appropriate accounting data,
 of validity.                                       record the obligation and process the payment to TPPS.
 DFAS/FINCEN receives certified summary             DFAS/FINCEN must provide payment for the summary invoice within 30
 invoice.                                           calendar days after the PPSO received the invoice from TPPS. NOTE: If
                                                    DFAS fails to meet any of the above conditions, a payment to TPPS
                                                    CANNOT be processed by DFAS within 30 days subjecting the LOA to PPI.


              (23) Post-Payment Audit Data Retrieval (13.0):
                    GSA conducts post-payment audits, using invoice data from TPPS and data on
                    authorized services and weights from the DPS. GSA reserves the right to request hard
                    copy supporting documents to conduct post payment audits.
              (24) DoD Annual Corrective Requirements:
                    (a) Shipper Sites/TO Action: Review Summary Invoice under the Account Activity
                        section for any Past Due Amount identified and work with the DFAS counterpart to
                        resolve issues affecting disbursement on the account (e.g., invalid LOA, manual
                        corrections erroneously made on Summary Invoice). Sites will accrue Prompt
                        Payment-interest penalties assessed by DFAS for all amounts shown in this area.
                        Aggressively follow up with the DFAS POC and TPPS contractor (Customer
                        Operations Help Desk, 800-417-1844) to ensure payments are made and posted
                        once issues are resolved.
                    (b) Service/Agency HQ Action: Randomly review Summary Invoices on accounts
                        under their jurisdiction. Provide oversight and assistance to ensure past due
                        amounts/accounts are paid.




                                                           IV-A-A-22
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    4 February 2026
Personal Property


                        1 When notified that accounts have amounts in, or above, the 75 days past-due
                          status, take action to ensure the account is brought current before expiration of
                          the current cycle.
                        2 Notify shipper site that when their account moves into the 105 days past-due
                          status (four cycles), it will be suspended until payment(s) is/are received to bring
                          it current.
                        3 Services/Agencies are required to pay in full all remaining unpaid transactions on
                          an annual basis by the end of the 1st quarter of the following FY/CY. For
                          example, all charges on an account for FY21 would be required to be paid in full
                          by the end of 1st quarter FY22.
                  (c) DFAS Payment Center Action:
                        1 DFAS POC will work with shipper site/HQ POC to resolve problems, following
                          guidelines established in their Interim Manual Operating Procedures.
                        2 DFAS will assist to resolve payment center issues and notify the Office of the
                          Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) of unresolved issues.
                        3 DFAS, in coordination with the CO/TO, will fully reconcile each account and
                          provide a listing of all remaining unpaid transactions to the services for the prior
                          FY/CY by (within 30 days of FY/CY end).
                  (d) TPPS contractor Action: Once accounts have been paid current, they will be
                      reactivated immediately by the TPPS contractor.
             (25) Help Desk Information:
                  TPPS Help Desk
                  customer.support@syncada.com
                  Toll-free in the U.S. (including Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico): 1.800.417.1844
                  Direct dial from outside the U.S.: +001.612.973.3170
                  DPS Help Desk
                  sddc.safb.dpshd@us.army.mil
                  Toll-Free (800) 462-2176 (option 5)
                  Commercial 618-220-SDDC
                  DSN 770-7332
    5. CO Business Rules:
        a. General:
             Commanders, activity directors, and other personnel of equivalent position of an organization
             must appoint a CO in writing. Commanders have the prerogative to appoint any qualified
             individual as a CO. There must be a separation of duties between the TO approving invoices
             in DPS versus the CO certifying the summary invoice for DFAS to pay the bank. The
             appointed COs must be a DoD civilian employee or military personnel or a federal civilian
             employee of a non-DoD agency. Contractors are not eligible to be a CO and COs may not
             concurrently serve as a Disbursing Officer or Deputy Disbursing Officer.
             The CO must ensure that the DFAS paying offices have the required documentation on file
             for the appointment. The required documentation is the CO appointment letter and the
             specimen signature card, DD Form 577, Appointment/Termination Record – Authorized
             Signature, Figure A-A-4. Certification of the summary invoice must be IAW DoDFMR
             7000.14-R, Volume 5, Chapter 5. To accomplish the tasks outlined below, access to TPPS


                                                   IV-A-A-23
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


             and the establishment of internal controls within TPPS are under the purview of the CO even
             if the individual is outside of the TO.
             Qualifications for COs are located in DoDFMR, Volume 5, Chapter 5. Requirements for TSP
             prepayment audit review are located in 41 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parts 101-41,
             Transportation Documentation and Audit, and 102-118, Transportation Payment and Audit;
             and requirements for summary invoice certification are located in the DoDFMR, Volume 5,
             Chapter 5. The extent of the liability of the CO is located in the DoDFMR reference. The 41
             CFR is available through https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
             idx?SID=dab860358e23d0a584e3c9a329253b07&mc=true&tpl=/ecfrbrowse/Title41/41tab_0
             2.tpl The DoDFMR is available through http://comptroller.defense.gov/fmr.
             The CO must review those TPPS transactions identified for post-TSP payment statistical
             sampling and verify the correctness of the summary invoice. All TSP payment approval
             transactions regardless of thresholds and tolerances included in the sample are applicable
             when reviewing the summary invoice for payment of correct amounts. The sampled
             transactions must be accurate or correction action must be taken [eBill]. The CO is not
             required to review other billings not specified in these rules, but must review any known
             discrepancies or erroneous billings to ensure the appropriateness of payment and the
             safeguarding of DoD funds.
             The summary invoice must be reviewed and electronically certified in TPPS by the CO prior
             to submission to and processing by the DFAS payment office. The overall scope of the
             review is to ensure that the invoice contains the necessary substantiation and documentation
             for lawful and proper payment. The CO utilizes the TPPS database and relies on information
             supplied by the accountable official, and works with the FM to ensure:
             (1) The summary invoice has complete LOAs for each line item on the summary invoice.
             (2) Each transaction has an LOA or SDN.
             NOTE: Not all Services use SDNs.
             (3) The summary invoice certification is completed and received by the DFAS payment
                 center within five (5) GBDs of receipt of the summary invoice.
             (4) Complete LOAs and/or SDNs are annotated on the summary invoice or other Service
                 required payment document.
             (5) The certified manual summary invoice with the attached detailed summary invoice and
                 customer’s order/authorization, for that time period is forwarded to the DFAS paying
                 office for processing; the electronic portion of the summary invoice is automatically sent
                 to the payment center via EDI 821/810 following electronic certification by the CO.
             (6) The amount billed and the certified amount is accurate on the summary invoice.
             The CO must review the summary invoice to ensure that it reflects the actual TSP payments
             and ensure the detailed amounts identified supporting documentation equals the amount
             certified on the summary invoice for reimbursement to the Bank. Adjustments for incorrect
             or erroneous charges must be processed for credit in subsequent billings. The CO must
             maintain records of such items until their final resolution and documented in TPPS and then
             processed in a summary invoice. The detailed summary invoice must contain a full LOA,
             including the SDN if applicable for each LOA to be charged. The CO must provide the
             summary invoice and customer’s orders, electronically if the capability exists. The CO must
             ensure that the summary invoice or other documentation is annotated with any missing data
             (i.e., full LOA, SDN) before forwarding to the DFAS.



                                                 IV-A-A-24
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                  4 February 2026
Personal Property


    6. Statistical Sampling Plan:
        a. Preparing to Select Transactions for Review: Obtain a reasonable estimate of the number of
           TPPS transactions expected to be processed for the current month from past data to determine
           the sample size and sample selection criteria. All categories of TPPS transactions regardless
           of dollar value are subject to review through random selection processes.
        b. Transactions Requiring 100 percent Review: Any TPPS transaction that does not contain an
           accounting classification or contains a partial accounting classification must be reviewed
           prior to summary invoice certification. Any TPPS transaction over $2,500 for a shipment or
           that has had a price variance greater than 30 percent from the original price must be reviewed.
           Instruct personnel who are authorized to approve TSP payments in TPPS to record all upward
           price adjustments in the journal entry section of the transaction. No transactions requiring
           100 percent review may be included in the transactions sampled for post-payment
           verification.
        c. Selecting the Sample of Transactions for Post-TSP Payment Verification: The Sampling
           Size/Interval Determination chart, Table A-A-6, provides the approximate sample size based
           upon the estimated total number of transactions for the given month. For example, if the TO
           estimates that approximately 2,000 TPPS transactions will be processed for the current
           month, the sample size would be approximately 95 and the sampling interval would be 21.
             A random start number from 1 to 21 would be selected (e.g., 5). Starting with the 5th
             transaction, every 21st transaction would be selected (e.g., 5, 26, 47) until the entire
             population had been exhausted and the total sample achieved. The actual sample size may
             vary from the estimate. After a sampling interval is selected, do not change the size of the
             sampling interval during the month. At the start of a new month, a different sampling
             interval may be used based on revisions to the estimated summary population sizes.
        d. Conducting the Post-TSP Payment Verification on a Statistical Sampling Basis: Conduct the
           review of the TPPS transactions. Prepare a TPPS Certifying Officer Checklist, Table A-A-7,
           or annotate the Expense Distribution Monitor Report for all transactions reviewed and upon
           completion, retain in the CO file for reference. The CO must compare any available source
           documentation (i.e., the Movement Request Order) with transactions from other source
           systems to ensure that input to TPPS was accurate. If there is a deviation from the source
           documentation or source input and the summary invoice, any journal entries related to the
           transaction must be reviewed for an explanation of the differences. If the TSP was overpaid,
           the CO must still certify the summary invoice and direct that an eBill be created to recoup the
           overpayment. This process must be accomplished within 30 days. Collections against
           vendors/TSPs no longer in the TPPS system or who have filed for protection under the
           bankruptcy rules must be accomplished IAW with existing debt management processes (See
           Volume 10, DoDFMR).
             NOTE: TSPs in bankruptcy cannot be approved for Auto Approval.
        e. TPPS Transaction Review Elements: The following elements must be reviewed to ensure the
           transactions have been properly accomplished and that any source documentation and/or
           source input supports the sampled TPPS transactions. This list can be augmented by other
           review elements.
             (1) SCAC is correct.
             (2) Complete accounting classifications are present on the summary invoice.
             (3) Amount claimed by the TSP is same amount on the shipping instructions.




                                                 IV-A-A-25
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                   4 February 2026
Personal Property


             (4) Any adjustments to rate or price are documented via the Journal Entry feature in TPPS
                 or the eBill process.
             (5) All service rates and charges are clearly identified and authorized on the shipping
                 instructions.
             (6) USTRANSCOM regulations have been adhered to as applies to movement charges
                 billed.
             (7) Complete TPPS transaction is reviewed for:
                  (a) Fraud, waste, and abuse by the TSP or others involved in the TSP payment
                      approval process.
                  (b) Additional monies the Government may be owed—create an eBill.
                  (c) Irregular or incomplete entries in the Journal Entry feature for that transaction.
             (8) Notification of the Service and USTRANSCOM of any TSP found abusing the fast
                 payment process.
                  Table A-A-6. Sample Size/Interval Determination (Target n = 100)
       Estimated                                          Estimated
                         Sampling         Estimated                        Sampling         Estimated
       Summary                                            Summary
                          Interval         Sample                           Interval         Sample
       Population                                         Population
                            Size            Size                              Size            Size
          Size                                               Size
           100               2                50               3600            37              97
           200               3                67               3700            38              97
           300               4                75               3800            39              97
           400               5                80               3900            40              98
           500               6                83               4000            41              98
           600               7                86               4100            42              98
           700               8                88               4200            43              98
           800               9                89               4300            44              98
           900               10               90               4400            45              98
          1000               11               91               4500            46              98
          1100               12               92               4600            47              98
          1200               13               92               4700            48              98
          1300               14               93               4800            49              98
          1400               15               93               4900            50              98
          1500               16               94               5000            51              98
          1600               17               94               5100            52              98
          1700               18               94               5200            53              98
          1800               19               95               5300            54              98
          1900               20               95               5400            55              98
          2000               21               95               5500            56              98
          2100               22               95               5600            57              98
          2200               23               96               5700            58              98
          2300               24               96               5800            59              98
          2400               25               96               5900            60              98
          2500               26               96               6000            61              98



                                                   IV-A-A-26
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                              4 February 2026
Personal Property


       Estimated                                          Estimated
                         Sampling         Estimated                    Sampling        Estimated
       Summary                                            Summary
                          Interval         Sample                       Interval        Sample
       Population                                         Population
                            Size            Size                          Size           Size
          Size                                               Size
          2600               27               96               6100        62              98
          2700               28               96               6200        63              98
          2800               29               97               6300        64              98
          2900               30               97               6400        65              98
          3000               31               97               6500        66              98
          3100               32               97               6600        67              99
          3200               33               97               6700        68              99
          3300               34               97               6800        69              99
          3400               35               97               6900        70              99
          3500               36               97               7000        71              99


    For summary population sizes greater than 7000, the sampling interval is approximately equal to
    the population size divided by 100. For example, if the number of TPPS transactions processed
    each month is approximately 7500, then the sampling interval is 75, the sampling frequency is
    1/75 and the total number of TPPS transactions selected for audit is approximately 100.




                                                   IV-A-A-27
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                   4 February 2026
Personal Property




      Figure A-A-4. DD Form 577, Appointment/Termination Record – Authorized Signature



                                              IV-A-A-28
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                   4 February 2026
Personal Property




 Figure A-A-4. DD Form 577, Appointment/Termination Record – Authorized Signature (Cont’d)



                                              IV-A-A-29
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                         4 February 2026
Personal Property


                                      Table A-A-7. TPPS CO Checklist
                                      TPPS Certifying Officer Checklist
                            Sampled Transactions for the Month of __________ 20XX
                     TPPS
                                       LOA          Supported by       Journal Entry       eBill        Adjustment
 BL Number        Transaction
                                    Appropriate     TSP Payment          Reviewed       Adjustment          $$$
                   Reviewed




C. Invoice Submission, Prompt Payment, and Penalty Interest Procedures
    1. General:
        This program replicates the current program’s billing procedures into an electronic format using
        TPPS as a payment tool to pay the TSP. eBill provides information visibility, improves the
        DFAS payment and collection process, and reduces the amount of paper documentation. This
        section details proper invoice requirements, how PPA interest due to the TSP is calculated,
        procedures for calculating the number of days a TSP invoice has been outstanding, and the
        associated PPI due.
    2. Requirements for a Proper Invoice:
                                     Table A-A-8. Invoice Requirements
 Circular Requirements                          Description                                    Source
Name of Vendor              Name or SCAC                                          Vendor Invoice
Vendor Address              United States Postal Service Mailing address          Not required on vendor invoice;
                                                                                  already on file at TPPS
Invoice Date                Date of Vendor’s Invoice                              Vendor Invoice
Government Contract         BL Number                                             Vendor Invoice
Number.
Description                 Line item/sub-line item/price/weight/quantity/services Vendor Invoice
                            rendered by vendor
Shipping and Payment        Conditions outlined in either contract or BL unless   Not required for invoices to TPPS
Terms                       otherwise noted
Tax identification number   Vendor’s Internal Revenue Service identification      Not required on vendor invoice;
                                                                                  already on file at TPPS




                                                       IV-A-A-30
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                      4 February 2026
Personal Property


 Circular Requirements                         Description                                  Source
Banking Information        Vendor’s financial instructions for payment         Not required on vendor invoice;
                                                                               already on file at TPPS.
Contact name               Vendor contact information                          Not required on vendor invoice;
                                                                               already on file at TPPS.
Other substantiating       Documentation required to support invoice details   Hard-copy DD Form 619,
Documentation                                                                  Statement of Accessorial Services
                                                                               Performed, must be maintained
                                                                               by the TSP and furnished to the
                                                                               PPSO on demand as required by
                                                                               Service.
Receiving reports          Certification of service completion                 Required on vendor invoice; also
information                                                                    known as “notice of service
                                                                               completion”. Provided in the EDI
                                                                               859.


    3. Invoice Guidelines:
        The following guidelines ensure the TSP submits invoices properly and charges are properly
        processed in a timely and efficient manner. Normally an invoice must contain more than one line
        item charge, unless invoice is submitted for supplemental charges. Single item invoices not
        conforming to the procedures outlined below will be denied. Exceptions to these guidelines must
        be handled on a case-by-case basis. The TSP must resubmit charges using one of the invoice
        formats listed in the invoicing guidelines.
        a. All origin SIT charges including LHS with fuel surcharge, and all associated accessorial.
        b. All destination SIT with storage less than 30 days, including fuel surcharge and all associated
           accessorial.
        c. All destination SIT charges with storage more than 30 days, including fuel surcharge and all
           associated accessorial. These services can be billed in 30 days increments or the TSP can
           wait until the shipment is delivered before invoicing.
        d. Partial delivery of destination SIT, including fuel surcharge and all associated accessorial.
        e. Partial and remaining portion of destination SIT, including the fuel surcharge and all
           associated accessorial.
        f.   Reimbursement invoice(s) (credit invoice).
        g. Reimbursement invoice(s) with re-invoiced charges (i.e., denied charge(s)).
        h. Direct deliveries including LHS with fuel surcharge, and all associated accessorials.
        i.   Any denied item code(s) from previous invoicing.
        j.   Any item code(s) that was accidentally left off of the previous invoicing.
    4. Main Guidelines for Application and Calculation of PPI (Title 5 CFR, Volume 3, Chapter III,
       Subchapter B, Part 1315, and DFAS’s guidance on the current process):
        a. The PPA clock begins when TPPS receives an invoice in TPPS (Invoice Create Date), either
           in the form of an EDI 859, or when created using the TPPS User Interface.
        b. All days referenced are calendar days.
        c. Proper invoices must be paid within 30 days from date stamp in TPPS to avoid PPA interest.
        d. Interest is paid based on the number of days exceeding 30.


                                                     IV-A-A-31
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                  4 February 2026
Personal Property


        e. If an invoice is deemed to be improper, the TSP is notified by EDI 997 or by the TSP status
           report from TPPS within 7 days of submission. Status codes are used to explain why a TSP
           invoice is improper.
        f.   Notification of an improper invoice stops the PPA clock. The PPA clock is re-started at zero
             upon receipt of the corrected invoice. Payment must be made within 30 days from the receipt
             of the corrected invoice to avoid interest payment.
        g. If notification of an improper invoice exceeds seven (7) days, subtract the number of days in
           excess of 7 from 30 to determine the time allowed for payment of the corrected invoice.
        h. Interest is calculated on the paid invoice amount.
        i.   Interest calculations are based on a 360-day year.
        j.   Interest days are calculated from day 31 until the “Payment Settled” date in TPPS.
             NOTE: DFAS has pointed out that (per Title 5 CFR, Volume 3, Chapter III, Subchapter B,
             Part 1315) the payment date for an EFT payment is the day the payment is credited to the
             vendor’s financial institution. However, in TPPS the EFT date is the date TPPS generates the
             EFT and the invoice is marked as Payment Settled. This may not be the date upon which the
             TSPs financial institution is credited. This is based solely upon the Automated Clearing
             House rules.
        k. Payments falling due on a weekend or government holiday may be made on the following
           business day without incurring late payment interest penalties.
        l.   The interest rate is obtained from the Treasury Department (800-266-9667). Late payment
             interest is calculated at the interest rate in effect on the day after the payment due date.
        m. An additional penalty payment is owed to a TSP if the late payment interest is not included in
           the original payment, is not paid within 10 days of the actual payment date of the invoice and
           the TSP makes a written request within 40 days of the original payment (additional caveats
           are referenced in Title 5 CFR, Volume 3, Chapter III, Subchapter B, Part 1315). Any
           additional penalty owed is equal to 100 percent of the original late payment interest but
           cannot be less than $25.00 nor exceed $5,000.
    5. Overall Business Rules for Notification of an Improper Invoice:
        a. All line items on the individual invoice must be approved, denied, or disputed in DPS.
        b. The PPSO must take action within three (3) GBDs on invoices awaiting PPSO action in DPS.
        c. This three (3) GBDs time frame falls within the required 7-calendar-day period for
           notification to the TSP of an improper invoice.
        d. If this notification exceeds seven (7) calendar days, the number of days between the
           notification day and the seven (7) calendar days in question is subtracted from the 30 calendar
           days allowed for payment of the invoice. For example, if an agency receives an invoice on 1
           November but does not return it as improper to the TSP until 13 November, five (5) days
           after required, and the agency receives a corrected invoice on 20 November, the payment due
           date is 15 December, or five (5) days earlier, if the payment was due 30 days after receipt of a
           proper invoice.
        e. Agencies are required to identify all defects that prevent payment.
        f.   The PPSO daily receives e-mails requesting an action to outstanding invoices in DPS. Also,
             an Aging Report has been established in DPS to identify transactions to which action is
             overdue. A TSP status report also exists for transactions in TPPS. This report, sent daily via



                                                 IV-A-A-32
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                   4 February 2026
Personal Property


             e-mail, outlines the status of each invoice (including cancelled invoices) and depicts each line
             item’s quantities and cost as approved in DPS.
    6. As-Is Improper Invoice Notification and PPI Clock Usage:
        The following process flow depicts the points in the process where notification of an improper
        invoice may occur and where the PPA clock starts and stops.
        a. Invoice Submission: The TSP submits an EDI 859 Invoice to TPPS or creates an invoice via
           the TPPS User Interface. TPPS performs edit checks and acknowledges receipt of EDI 859
           via EDI 997 (includes notification of error as well). If the invoice is rejected, the clock stops.
        b. Invoice Relay from TPPS to DPS: TPPS posts the TSP invoice and sends a copy via EDI 859
           to DPS. DPS performs edit checks to include validating correct SCAC/BL combination and
           acknowledges receipt via EDI 997 and/or rejects via EDI 824. Rejected invoices are
           cancelled in TPPS. The clock stops. The TPPS create date is the start of the clock if there
           are no DPS rejected invoices.
        c. PPSO Invoice Approval/Denial/In Dispute: The PPSO receives an e-mail of pending
           invoices from DPS and approves, denies, or disputes the line items within three (3) GBDs
           (notification of invalid invoice is required in seven (7) calendar days). The TSPs are required
           to input the shipment weight information in DPS prior to invoicing. For approved line items,
           DPS then rates those on the invoice. Denied line items are rated as zero quantity and cost.
           For approved and denied line items, the clock does not stop in DPS. With regards to disputed
           line items, the PPI clock stops and restarts at zero when the dispute has been resolved.
        d. Rated BL Submission: DPS sends EDI 858 of rated BL/invoice to TPPS which then matches
           the TSP invoice.
        e. Invoice Modification: If the TSP invoice in TPPS does not match price or quantity to DPS
           rated BL/invoice, the invoice is in a status of Audit Exception in TPPS. TSPs receive the
           TSP Status Report via e-mail daily notifying the status of all the invoices in TPPS including
           those cancelled via EDI 824 from DPS. If there are denied line items, TSP accepts the partial
           payment (of the approved line items). The TSP must resolve the denied line items with the
           PPSO and send a supplemental invoice for those denied items they are entitled to. The clock
           restarts at zero with the new invoice.
             The PPSO and the TSP must resolve any disputed line items in DPS. Upon resolution, the
             PPSO must approve the line item, which in turn is submitted to TPPS. The line items are
             only submitted to TPPS as part of the entire invoice, when all line items have been updated to
             the approved or denied status. At that point, the clock re-starts at zero. The transaction may
             wind up in Audit Exception in TPPS. The TSP must modify their invoice to match the output
             from DPS. The clock does not stop while the invoice is in Audit Exception and only stops
             when the TSP updates their invoice.
             If the TSP believes the items were denied incorrectly by the rating engine and the original
             invoice amount and quantities were correct, the TSP must contact the SDDC help desk,
             initiating the request for PPA interest. These instances are handled on a case-by-case basis
             and are not automated.
        f.   Invoice Approval: If the TSPs invoice amount is above the maximum dollar threshold
             established by the Services, the transaction is in “Approval Required” status and the PPSO
             must provide approval in TPPS before the TSP can be paid. The clock does not stop while
             transactions are in this status.




                                                  IV-A-A-33
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                                         4 February 2026
Personal Property


         g. Invoice Payment: If DPS rated BL/invoice matches on price and quantity with the TSPs
            invoice then the transaction is automatically paid. The clock start is from the “Create Date”
            in TPPS until the Payment Settled date.
              NOTE: As part of the invoice verification process, the origin PPSO may request hard-copy
              documentation from the TSP (to include the DD Form 619, Figure A-A-3) for any invoice. In
              addition, the PPSO is required to review the hard-copy documentation for a set number of
              transactions selected at random. Under all circumstances, the PPSOs request for hard-copy
              documentation results in the PPI clock being stopped and restarted at zero after
              documentation has been received.
    7. Application of PPI – Scenarios:
         Table A-A-9 provides examples of the application of PPI.
                                          Table A-A-9. Prompt Pay Scenarios
                                  Scenario                                                       PPI Applications
Scenario One:                                                                 1. Invoice is considered improper and is not be
TSPs invoice EDI 859 submitted to TPPS by the TSP has improper format            captured in TPPS.
(caused by syntax errors). TSP receives an EDI 997 (acknowledgement of 2. PPI clock stops.
receipt will state invalid invoice), generated by TPPS. (No EDI 997 for User
Interface-created invoice is provided – it either passes or fails in the User
Interface itself).
Scenario Two:                                                                1. Invoice is considered improper and is cancelled in
TSPs EDI 859 or User Interface invoice submitted to TPPS by the TSP has         TPPS.
the proper format and is sent to DPS, but incurs errors beyond syntax (e.g., 2. PPI clock stops and restarts at zero upon
Vendor Name/SCAC) (e.g., The BL number and SCAC combination are                 resubmission of invoice.
incorrect). An EDI 824 error report is generated by DPS and made
available to the TSPs in TPPS. TPPS provides a Status Report to the
TSPs by e-mail.
Scenario Three:                                                               1. Clock begins on TPPS invoice creation date.
The TSP submits an invoice in TPPS and on day seven, the PPSO                 2. TSP gets paid on day 32 from invoice creation.
approves the invoice items in DPS. DPS relays the rated invoice to TPPS.      3. Two (2) days PPI owed.
The invoice goes into “Approval Required” in TPPS as it is above the
threshold established by the Services. PPSO takes 25 days to approve.
Scenario Four:                                                             1.     TSP gets paid partial amount on day 12 from
The TSP submits an invoice in TPPS and after 10 days from invoice                 original invoice submission.
submission the PPSO approves eight line items and denies two line items    2.     PPI clock starts at 3 days (10 days - 7 days)
in DPS. The invoice is rated for the approved line items and sent to TPPS, 3.     TSP gets paid in full on day 40 for 2nd invoice.
where the invoice goes into Audit Exception on day 11 from invoice
                                                                           4.     No PPI on the original invoice. For the
submission. TSP updates the invoice in DPS (zeros out the two denied line
                                                                                  supplemental invoice, 10 days of PPI is due.
items) and in TPPS on day 12. The rated BL and the TSPs’ invoice
matches and is paid by TPPS. The TSP re-bills for the denied line items on
day 12 from the original invoice submission and the PPSO takes 28 days to
approve line items in DPS. Invoice is automatically approved in TPPS on
day 40 from the original invoice submission.
Scenario Five:                                                                  1. PPI is settled on a case-by-case basis.
Same scenario as under scenario number Four, but includes one additional
step: Upon further investigation, it is concluded that the PPSO denied the
line items incorrectly. TSP initiates request for PPA on originally denied line
items that were incorrectly denied.




                                                             IV-A-A-34
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                                       4 February 2026
Personal Property


                                Scenario                                                       PPI Applications
Scenario Six:                                                                1. PPI clock for the original invoice stands at three
The TSP submits an invoice in TPPS.                                             (3) days.
The PPSO takes three (3) days to dispute one line item on the invoice and    2. PPI clock restarts at zero on day 35 when the
approve others in DPS. The approved line items are rated and the TSP            invoice for the originally disputed line item is
zeros out the amount for the line item in dispute. The PPSO approves the        submitted to TPPS.
invoice immediately and it is sent to TPPS. In TPPS, the transaction winds   3. TSP gets paid partially on day 3 and in full on day
up in Audit Exception since the rated invoice from DPS does not match the       43.
original invoice filed in TPPS. The TSP updates the invoice in TPPS and is   4. No PPI due (43 days - 35 days = 8 days of PPI
paid immediately on day 3 from invoice submission. TSP fails to provide         clock).
PPSO required documentation in a timely manner. The disputed line item
is resolved 35 days after invoice submission. The transaction is sent back
to TPPS and is in Audit Exception. The TSP updates the invoice for the
one line item on day 43.
Scenario Seven:                                                           1. PPI clock restarts at zero on day 35 when the
The TSP submits an invoice in TPPS.                                          invoice is updated in DPS.
The PPSO takes three (3) days to dispute one line item on the invoice and 2. The TSP gets paid on day 80.
approve the remainder in DPS. The TSP updates the invoice in DPS to       3. 15 days of PPI due (80 - 35 - 30 days = 15 days).
reflect the government rated amount for the disputed line item on day 35
from invoice submission. The PPSO approves the updated line item and
DPS relays the feed to TPPS. The transaction is sent back to TPPS and is
in Audit Exception since the TSP did not update the invoice in TPPS. The
TSP updates the invoice for the one line item in TPPS on day 80 and is
paid immediately.
Scenario Eight:                                                            1. PPI clock starts at 30 days (37 - 7 days) when
The TSP submits an invoice in TPPS.                                           invoice is submitted to TPPS.
The PPSO takes 37 days to dispute one line item and approve the            2. The TSP gets paid on day 43.
remaining in DPS. The TSP updates the one line item to reflect the         3. 13 days of PPI due (43 – 30 = 13 days).
government-rated line immediately in DPS. The PPSO approves the line
item immediately and the transaction is sent to TPPS. It winds up in Audit
Exception since the TSP did not update the invoice in TPPS. The TSP
updates the Invoice on Day 40 in TPPS and the invoice subsequently goes
into “Approval Required” since it is above the services-established
threshold. The PPSO takes three (3) days to approve the invoice in TPPS.
Scenario Nine:                                                          1. TSP gets paid on day 34 from invoice submission.
The TSP submits an invoice in TPPS. The PPSO approves all line items in 2. 4 days of PPI due (34 - 30 days = 4 days).
DPS on day 8. The invoice is above the threshold and has a status of
“Approval Required” in TPPS. PPSO approves the invoice in TPPS on day
34.


    8. Process for Calculation and Posting of PPI:
         a. The TPPS provider generates a report for paid invoices that includes those outstanding more
            than 30 days using the status in TPPS, “Invoice Creation Date” to “Payment Settled”, as
            parameters. This report is available on demand through TPPS, and includes invoices and
            LOA used for the invoices in question.
         b. USTRANSCOM runs report three times a week.
         c. USTRANSCOM then analyzes the invoices in question to determine whether the transactions
            are subject to PPI. USTRANSCOM determines whether PPI is applicable, taking into
            account the required seven (7) days for notification, as well as the PPI clock reset in the event
            a transaction has been “in dispute.”
         d. If it is determined PPI is owed, the PPI worksheet calculates the amount of PPI owed to the
            TSP. The basis of the PPI is the entire invoice-amount.
         e. USTRANSCOM creates an eBill in TPPS due to the TSP referencing the TSP invoice
            number and BL number. A specific item code for PPI is used on the eBill. The eBill
            transactions become another paid item on the TPPS Summary Invoice for a PPSO. The eBill
            contains the LOA for PPI as provided by the origin PPSO’s Service.


                                                          IV-A-A-35
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                  4 February 2026
Personal Property


        f.   The origin PPSO must approve the eBill as created by USTRANSCOM.
        g. DFAS, upon receipt of the summary invoice, applies the interest to the specific Service
           associated with that LOA as mentioned above.
        h. The Government will reimburse TPPS provider for interest when appropriate.
    9. Procedures for Submitting Penalty PPI Request:
        The following is the high-level process for paying penalty interest for interest payments that have
        not been made within 10 days of the invoice payment date.
        a. The TSP creates a request to receive penalty interest on invoices that are accumulated interest
           but has not received an interest payment after 10 days. This request must be made within 40
           days of the payment date or the request is not valid. The request must be submitted with the
           proper information.
        b. DPS Help Desk identifies the request and forwards it to Tier 2 level employees for analysis.
           The Tier 2 employee first analyzes the transaction and determines if the transaction is owed
           interest initially and whether or not the transaction is due penalty interest.
        c. If the transaction is owed penalty payment of interest, the Tier 2 employee creates an eBill.
           The eBill must be created in TPPS for double the amount of interest or a minimum of $25
           and a maximum of $5000. Additionally, if the original interest payment has been paid, the
           amount paid would be the double of the original interest or a minimum of $25 and a
           maximum of $5000 - original interest (i.e., if the double interest payment is $100 and the
           original interest in the amount of $50 has already been paid, $100 - $50 = $50 is owed to the
           TSP because of the penalty interest). If the transaction is not owed double payment of
           interest, the Tier 2 employee would not create an eBill but would identify why the interest
           was not paid.
             (1) The Tier 2 employee must then notify DPS Help Desk if the eBill has been created or if
                 the double interest request has been denied.
             (2) If the penalty interest was granted, the help desk must notify the TSP that an eBill has
                 been generated and waiting approval by the PPSO. If the penalty interest request is
                 denied, DPS Help Desk must close out the service request with a note stating why the
                 double interest request was denied and forward the closed service request to the TSP.
        d. After the eBill has been created, the eBill enters the “Approval Required” status in TPPS.
           During the routine checks for transaction in “Approval Required” Status, the PPSO identifies
           the eBill and approves or denies the transaction based on analysis. If approved, the eBill
           enters “Payment Settled” status and is paid by TPPS via EFT. If denied, the eBill does not
           get paid by TPPS and a record of the eBill is held in TPPS with a note describing why the
           item has been denied.

D. Contingency Plan
    Figure A-A-5 depicts the contingency option to process shipments manually in cases where the
    system is down for an extended period of time and there is no internet connection. The diagram




                                                 IV-A-A-36
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                    4 February 2026
Personal Property


    depicts the participating organizations as rectangles, processes as ovals, and the lines between them as
    data and information flows.




                             Figure A-A-5. High-Level Contingency Process
    1.0   Order/Authorization Issuance Activity prepares the order/authorization, and the activity’s funds
          manager/budget office makes sure that the proper accounting data (e.g., TAC/LOA/MDC) is
          entered on the TOD. The order/authorization is given to the customer.
    2.0   The customer then relays the order/authorization to the PPSO.
    3.0   The PPSO then creates a BL based on the order/authorization received and forwards the
          document to the TSP and DFAS. The PPSO maintains a copy of each BL issued, including
          those that are cancelled.
    4.0   The TSP performs services, such as prepares and submits the inventory, weight ticket, and DD
          Form 619 to the applicable origin or destination PPSO for review and approval.
    4.1   The applicable origin or destination PPSO will review and authorize the DD Form 619, then
          return it to the TSP.
    5.0   The hard-copy documentation is either sent to GSA-approved pre-payment auditor (for
          example, National Traffic Service) directly or the documents are sent to DFAS and then
          forwarded to the pre-payment auditor.
    6.0   DFAS and TSP representatives work to resolve billing discrepancies, such as missing
          signatures or differing cost amounts. If a billing dispute needs to be escalated, it is raised to the
          USTRANSCOM, and eventually to GSA if the disagreement cannot be resolved.
    6.1   DTOD is used for ITGBL computation of LH and accessorial costs by DFAS.
    6.2   Rand McNally mileage is used for TGBL computation of LH and accessorial costs by DFAS.
    7.0 DFAS reviews, certifies the invoice for payment, and makes the payment to the TSP.


                                                  IV-A-A-37
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


E. Processing Transactions in DPS or TPPS
    The Service HQ must create a contingency plan to process transactions in DPS and TPPS. This plan
    must ensure all transactions are processed if the PPSO site does not have the capabilities to access any
    of the systems. Transactions which must be processed during this scenario include pending invoices
    in DPS, Approval Required transactions in TPPS, and the summary invoice. The contingency plan
    must determine the personnel who are responsible for processing transactions, relocation of any
    hardware needed for functionality, and the processing location.
    1. Proper Invoice Submission:
        One of the Defense personal property program’s objectives is to replicate the current program’s
        billing procedures (prior to DPS) into an electronic format using the TPPS as a payment tool to
        pay the TSPs. The electronic billing procedures provide information visibility for stakeholders;
        improve the DFAS payment and collection process; and reduce the amount of paper
        documentation. These objectives provide a more efficient way of billing. While achieving the
        program’s objectives, it is important to note that the business rules and procedures of the DTR are
        the main guidelines for the DP3.
        Outlined below are guidelines the TSP must use when submitting invoices to DPS for services
        performed. Adherence to these guidelines ensures the TSP is submitting the invoice properly and
        all charges are properly processed in a timely and efficient manner. The following guidelines
        highlight the charges that included under one invoice when billing through the DP3.
    2. Guidelines for Proper Invoicing:
        a. All origin SIT charges including LHS with fuel surcharge, and all associated accessorial.
        b. All destination SIT with storage less than 30 days, including fuel surcharge and all associated
           accessorial.
        c. All destination SIT charges with storage more than 30 days, including fuel surcharge and all
           associated accessorial. These services can be billed in 30-day increments, or TSP can wait
           until shipment is delivered before invoicing.
        d. Partial delivery of destination SIT, including fuel surcharge and all associated accessorial.
        e. Partial and remaining portion of destination SIT, including the fuel surcharge and all
           associated accessorial.
        f.   Reimbursement invoice(s) (credit invoice).
        g. Reimbursement invoice(s) with re-invoiced charges (i.e., denied charge(s).
        h. Direct deliveries including LHS with fuel surcharge, and all associated accessorials.
        i.   Any denied item code(s) from previous invoicing.
        j.   Any item code(s) that was accidentally left off of the previous invoicing.
        NOTE 1: Exceptions to these guidelines are handled on a case-by-case basis.
        NOTE 2: TSPs must not submit an invoice for each item code. Single item invoices that do not
        conform to the procedures outlined above are denied. The TSP is required to resubmit charges
        using one of the invoice formats listed in the invoicing guidelines.

F. Shipment Codes of Service
    The following shipment codes of service are used for Through Government Bill of Lading (TGBL)
    and International Through Government Bill of Lading (ITGBL) shipments.



                                                  IV-A-A-38
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                  4 February 2026
Personal Property


    1. Domestic Motor Van (Code 1). Movement of household goods whereby the carrier provides
       packing, pickup, and loading in a motor van from origin residence in the Continental United
       States (CONUS) to destination residence in CONUS. Automated systems will use Code 1A for
       interstate movements and Code 1B for intrastate movements.
    2. Domestic Container (Code 2). Movement of household goods whereby the carrier provides
       packing, pickup, and loading in containers from origin residence in CONUS to destination
       residence in CONUS. Automated systems will use Code 2A for interstate movements and Code
       2B for intrastate movements.
    3. International Door-to-Door Container (Code 3). Carrier provides origin services, line-haul
       service from origin residence to a commercial ocean terminal, ocean transportation using Military
       Surface Deployment and Distribution Command Operations Universal Service Contract rates for
       over the ocean portion of the shipment, line haul to destination residence, and destination
       services.
    4. International Door-to-Door Container (Code 4). Movement of household goods in Military
       Surface Deployment and Distribution Command approved door-to-door shipping containers
       (wooden boxes) whereby a Transportation Service Provider provides complete through service
       from origin residence to destination residence over land and/or ocean means.
    5. International Door-to-Door Container Government Ocean Transportation (Code 5). Movement of
       household goods in Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command approved door-to-
       door shipping containers (wooden boxes) whereby a carrier provides line-haul service from origin
       residence to military ocean terminal, the government provides ocean (Military Sealift Command)
       transportation to designated port of discharge, and the carrier provides line-haul service to
       destination residence, all without rehandling of container contents.
    6. International Door-to-Door Air Container (Code 6). Movement of household goods whereby the
       carrier provides containerization at the origin residence, surface transportation to the airport
       nearest origin that can provide required services, air transportation to the airport nearest
       destination that can provide required services, and transportation to the destination residence.
    7. International Land-Water-Land Baggage (Code 7). Movement of unaccompanied baggage
       whereby the carrier provides packing and pickup at origin, surface transportation to destination,
       and cutting of the banding and opening of the boxes at the destination residence.
    8. International Land-Air-Land Baggage (Code 8). Movement of unaccompanied baggage whereby
       the carrier provides packing and pickup at origin, transportation to the origin airport, air
       transportation to the destination airport, surface transportation to destination, and cutting of the
       banding and opening of the boxes at the destination residence.
    9. International Door-to-Door Container –Air Mobility Command (Code T). Movement of
       household goods whereby the carrier provides containerization at the origin residence and
       transportation to the designated Air Mobility Command terminal. Air Mobility Command
       provides terminal services at both origin and destination and air transportation to the designated
       Air Mobility Command destination terminal. The carrier provides transportation to the
       destination residence.
    10. International Land-Air (Air Mobility Command) – Land Baggage (Code J). Movement of
        unaccompanied baggage whereby the carrier provides packing and pickup at the origin and
        transportation to the designated Air Mobility Command terminal. Air Mobility Command
        provides terminal services at both origin and destination and air transportation to the designated
        Air Mobility Command destination terminal. The carrier provides transportation to destination




                                                 IV-A-A-39
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                  4 February 2026
Personal Property


        from Air Mobility Command terminal and cutting of the banding and opening of the boxes at the
        destination residence.

G. Electronic Bill Payment for NTS
    This NTS electronic bill payment process is accomplished by multiple interfacing automated systems.
    Web-Enabled Transportation Operational Property Standard System (ETOPS) transmits government
    line item order data via Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) 858 to the TPPS upon the PPSO’s
    validation of the monthly and quarterly (when applicable) invoices. Invoices are complete when the
    NTS TSP has provided the PPSO with the weight tickets for handling-in and actual release date on
    handling-out. When the TPPS receives the monthly/quarterly data from ETOPS, the government
    order and corresponding invoices will automatically be created. Each item will be placed in an
    approval required status pending TSPs Notice of Completion (NOC) and the PPSOs approval action.
    The TPPS then processes a payment to the NTS TSP, normally within three (3) GBDs. Invoice audit
    trail, payment tracking and transaction visibility is achieved.
    The TPPS maintains an LOA Chart of Account (COA) sourced by the DFAS Transportation Global
    Edit Table-Revised (TGET-R) and uses the table to retrieve, validate, and edit LOA contained in the
    Tender of Service issued by the PPSO. ETOPS calculates an estimated shipment cost based on
    shipment data gathered throughout the shipment process. The cost estimate is populated into an
    electronic shipment file, the EDI 858 data feed, and is transmitted to the DFAS for payment.

H. NTS PAYMENT Process
    At the end of the billing cycle, the TPPS electronically generates monthly Summary Invoices, which
    show all payments to the TSPs made by the TPPS provider on behalf of the DoD and credits to the
    DoD. The monthly summary statement is made available for online viewing and certification by the
    PPSO Certifying Officer (CO). The monthly summary statement certification triggers the TPPS to
    send a copy of the EDI data feed to the DFAS. The DFAS matches the certification and processes the
    monthly summary statement for payment (reimbursement) back to the TPPS provider.
    Invoices for accessorial services that do not match the service order will also require the PPSO review
    in approval required. The PPSO can dispute NTS TSP invoiced line item(s) by assigning a status of
    “In Dispute” to the line item and providing reason(s). If an invoice is disputed for one or more line
    items, the TSP is notified via the TPPS. Negotiation and resolution between the NTS TSP and the
    PPSO must be achieved for all “In Dispute” items before they are approved in the TPPS.
    The prompt payment interest “clock” begins when the TSP successfully submits the Notice Of
    Service Completion (NOSC) in the TPPS. The “clock” stops during the dispute process as well as for
    rejected invoices.
    1. Process 1 – PPSO Validates/Edits Accounting Data:
        As part of the personal property counseling process, the PPSOs/Personal Property Processing
        Offices enter shipment and funding data in ETOPS from the customer’s travel order. If the
        correct funding data is not provided on the order, the PPSO will refer the customer to the order
        issuing authority for resolution.
        The TPPS maintains an LOA COA sourced by the data contained in the DFAS TGET-R
        repository. If the invoice contains LOA data that is formatted correctly (i.e., FA2 format), but is
        incomplete, it will still transmit to the TPPS and align under the manual side of the monthly
        summary statement.




                                                 IV-A-A-40
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


    2. Process 2 – Initial Cost Estimates:
        Estimated shipment costs will not be calculated/used within this interim electronic payment
        process.
    3. Process 3 – Global Exchange (GEX) Validates and Translates EDI 858:
        The calculated shipment cost file from ETOPS is sent to GEX via a New Shipment EDI 858.
        GEX translates the data from the EDI 858 into the appropriate User Defined File (UDF) 821.
        GEX uses the value in the Accounting Installation Number (AIN) field of the FA2 LOA to
        determine the DFAS/Payment Center location to which the ensuing UDF 821 must be routed.
        The UDF 821 data feed is a customer file used to communicate expense obligation and accruals
        in an accounting context.
    4. Process 4 – DFAS/Payment Center Accounting and Entitlement Systems Validation:
        When travel orders are established, the Funds Manager (FM) obligates funds to cover all related
        expenses to be incurred by the traveler per the order. The FM creates the obligation in the travel
        order issuing entity’s accounting system. The obligation file is transmitted to the DFAS on a
        routine basis.
        With the UDF 821 from GEX, the DFAS validates LOA/obligations for each transaction. When
        a transaction fails the local edits, the DFAS notifies the FM responsible for the LOA/obligation to
        take corrective actions. The LOA and obligation data reside in the DFAS until they are matched
        with invoice data received from the TPPS at the end of the billing cycle.
    5. Process 5 – TSP Invoices created in TPPS:
        a. Handling-In and Handling-Out Invoices:
             The TSPs must complete services by the end of the calendar month and submit the inventory
             and weight tickets prior to the 7th calendar day of the following month. The PPSO will input
             the shipment weights and print the monthly handle-in and handle-out invoices from ETOPS
             not later than the 7th calendar day.
             The TPPS assigns a unique identifier known as the LineIDC to each line item submitted on
             the TSP’s invoice and transmits the EDI 859. The TSPs have the option of submitting more
             than one invoice against a single DD Form 1164, Service Order for Personal Property. Each
             invoice must reference the NTS Service Order Number and have a unique invoice number
             assigned by ETOPS.
        b. Quarterly Storage Invoicing:
             The PPSO will determine the status of all pending receipt actions up to the end of the current
             billing quarter by the NTS TSP through ETOPS management reports. Once all handling-in
             and handling-out receipt actions for the current billing quarter have been validated, the PPSO
             will generate the quarterly storage order for each NTS TSP’s Standard Carrier Alpha Code
             through ETOPS to the TPPS.
        c. Invoices for Accessorial Services:
             Upon completion of services and submission, the TSP submits an invoice for services
             (including the NOSC) in TPPS using one of two available methods:
             (1) Through an EDI 859 transaction set (the EDI 859 is a generic electronic interface for
                 shipment information).
             (2) Manually through the TPPS User Interface. This can be accomplished by creating an
                 invoice from the service order.



                                                 IV-A-A-41
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                 4 February 2026
Personal Property


    6. Process 6 – Approval Required in TPPS:
        TPPS uses the existing Shipment EDI 858 data from ETOPS to create the TSP’s invoice. The
        Services’ maximum price threshold will be set at $0, triggering a manual PPSO approval required
        for all invoices. Once the PPSO has approved the item and the TSP has entered the NOSC, the
        TPPS provider will pay the TSP. The PPSO will have three (3) GBDs to approve, dispute, or
        deny Handle In and Handle Out invoices and seven (7) GBDs for Quarterly Invoices.
    7. Process 7 – Audit Exception Process in the TPPS:
        Audit Exceptions will not be a part of the interim NTS payment process.
    8. Process 8 – TPPS Summary Invoice Generation and Certification:
        At the end of the NTS TPPS billing cycle, the monthly summary invoice listing all payments with
        corresponding accounting information made by TPPS provider on behalf of the DoD to the TSPs
        is generated. The monthly summary invoice will also include DoD credits. The PPSO COs may
        access the monthly summary invoice online for review and certification. The PPSO COs also
        review the individual transactions presented on the monthly summary invoice and confirm the
        validity of accounting information used and the accuracy of costs. If the accounting information
        is incorrect, the PPSO COs uses the TPPS COA to update accounting information.
        The monthly summary invoice may reflect two different sections for accounting data, an
        “electronic” (FA2-compliant) and a “manual” (text LOA) listing. If there is a manual listing on
        the PPSO’s monthly summary invoice, then the PPSO CO will print a hard-copy monthly
        summary invoice certifying the Text LOAs by signing and sending the report to the
        DFAS/FINCEN payment center. The PPSO CO must certify the monthly summary invoice
        within five (5) GBDs of the monthly summary invoice being made available in the TPPS.
        The TPPS provides a separate PPSO account for processing all NTS charges (i.e., handling-in,
        handling-out, accessorial, and quarterly storage charges).
        The monthly summary invoice billing cycle will be on the 25th calendar day of each month.
    9. Process 9 – Reconciliation and Obligation Adjustment:
        Reconciliation and Obligation Adjustment will not be included under the interim NTS TPPS
        electronic payment process.
    10. Process 10 – The DFAS/Payment Center Approval and Processing of Payment to TPPS Provider:
        Within 48 hours after monthly summary invoice certification, the TPPS creates an EDI 810
        Invoice for each DFAS office using the electronic accounting data on the monthly summary
        invoice. The EDI 810 is a generic electronic interface for invoice data. The TPPS sends the EDI
        810 to the GEX. The GEX translates the EDI 810s into UDF 810s and sends them to the DFAS.
        Using the transmitted UDF 810, the DFAS pre-validates payments by confirming the existence
        and accuracy of the LOA and confirming sufficient funds were obligated. There is no tolerance
        level within the pre-validation process. If insufficient funds were obligated, by any amount, the
        invoice will not be approved for payment.
        Once pre-validation is successful, the DFAS pays TPPS provider via an Electronic Funds
        Transfer (EFT).




                                                IV-A-A-42
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                                                                     4 February 2026
Personal Property


    11. NTS TPPS Electronic Payment Process Flow:

                                                       vTOPS
               1. Monthly Invoice
                   Preaudit

                                                   2. 858 Invoice Data
                                                       (Govt Order)
                    PPSO                                                                                NTS TSP
                                                                         3. TSP Invoice
                                                                             Created
                                                                                                   6. TSP Payment
                              5. 100% Approval
                                  Required              TPPS                              4. Optional TSP
                                                                                              Invoice

                                                  7. Monthly Statement




                                                        DFAS                               FVH-DTR-A-0026




                                    Figure A-A-6. Interim NTS EBP Process Flow
        a. 1. Monthly Invoice Preaudit: The PPSOs will execute a monthly audit process on active NTS
           lots within ETOPS to ensure shipment details are correct (e.g., NTS lots are authorized
           continued storage, proper weights have been entered).
        b. 2. 858 Invoice Data: Invoice data EDI 858 from ETOPS to the TPPS: EDI 858 information
           is sent to the TPPS.
        c. 3. TSP Invoice Created: The TSP invoice is created from the Government Order immediately
           after receiving the EDI 858 data file.
        d. 4. Optional TSP Invoice: The TSP can also submit an invoice either electronically in an EDI
           859 or manually via the TPPS Web interface or accept the invoice created automatically by
           the TPPS in Paragraph H.11.c above. If the TSP invoice in the TPPS does not match the
           TPPS order, the invoice will be in a status of “Audit Exception.” The TSPs receive the TSP
           Status Report via e-mail daily notifying the status of all the invoices in the TPPS. If there are
           denied line items, the TSP accepts the partial payment (of the approved line items). The TSP
           will resolve the denied line items with the PPSO and resend a supplemental invoice for those
           denied items to which they are entitled. The clock will restart at zero with the new invoice.
        e. 5. 100 percent Approval Required: If the TSPs invoice amount is above the maximum dollar
           threshold established by the Services, the transaction will be in “Approval Required” status
           and the PPSO has to provide approval in the TPPS before the TSP is paid.
        f.   6. TPS Payment: When the PPSO completes the approval required and the TSP enters the
             service completion, payment is executed.
        g. 7. Monthly Statement: The monthly statement will cycle on the 25th of each month.
        NOTE: As part of the invoice verification process, the PPSO has the privilege to request
        hardcopy documentation from the TSP for any invoice. In addition, the PPSO is required to
        random sample in connection with this document. Under any circumstance, the PPSOs request
        for hard-copy documentation will result in the Prompt Payment Interest clock being stopped and
        restarted at zero (0) once documentation has been received by the TSP.


                                                     IV-A-A-43
Defense Transportation Regulation – Part IV                      4 February 2026
Personal Property




                            THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                                              IV-A-A-44
